
I've delayed, temporarily, working on my TM15 project from 2023. This week will be about getting access to the confocal microscope. That'll need a literature review, and then some administrative nonsense.

My strategy for the review uses a couple of customizable tools. The pipeline, as in series of tools to find relevant papers, is there to funnel down raw searches of literature databases (pubmed, but there are others) into some more concise lists hopefully.

*asreview*
Python browser application. Used for systematic reviews, but can be modded to work for broader literature searches. I don't bother with this and stick to the default settings - please don't follow my example! Tricky to set up and access is through the command line:
	asreview lab
Input is a .ris file, including (just tick the box on the export screen) abstracts, such as from a [scopus](https://www.scopus.com/search/form.uri?display=basic#basic) search - then export as a filtered .ris, for import into endnote, or other citation managers.

Works by machine learning which could be briefly brought up as a talking point - I think Daniel, maybe Sam, had opinions here.

I really like that it blinds you from the journal names as well - some very cool research is done in lower-quartile journals.

*connected papers*
[connectedpapers.com](https://www.connectedpapers.com/)
Website that needs to be used in 'incognito mode', to avoid setting up a premium account. Great for finding links to key references.

INSERT CONNECTEDPAPERS

Here are some Scopus queries. I've put these through *asreview*, looking at their abstracts only.
- 'coinfection AND biofilm AND ( models OR model )'

This is a little bit too broad but some trends emerged. Polymicrobial interactions, as in between Sa and Pa, need to be explicitly searched. Try 'coinfection AND pseudomonas AND staphylococcus'.

For experimental techniques, I need to focus on those that can be used with a confocal microscope. Try 'confocal AND biofilm'. There was mention that Keith's lab (thanks Rory) cultures on slides directly. I can use this is a control to see if my lit search is effective.

*Problematic observations*
- *C. albicans*/*S. aureus* coinfections. Seems to be a popular model. Not sure if entirely relevant.
- Not many models are clinically integrative. There was one that focused on 'hypoglycaemia', higher blood sugar found in Diabetes, that is a cool way to frame stress mechanics.
- Cell-free supernatant. Few studies on this subject - could be a good 'monomicrobial' experiment.
- Role of commensals. The word 'commensal', though with a broad meaning is mostly used to describe antagonism, I.E. 'a commensal supresses *Pseudomonas*-dependent inflammation'.
- Microfluidics. Not a feasible experiment. Are these papers worth reading? I'm also not sold on animal papers.
- Immune system cooperation. Can the immune system alter inter-species relations? Maybe adding FBS, or other serum could be an interesting experiment.
- Crossfeeding. This would require metabolomics. It seems likely that this could be a cooperative behaviour.

*Fun words:*
- Biogeography, similar to Colocalization.
- Sociomicrobiology, which applies to Coinfections. These are 'multidimensional'.
- Eco-Evolutionary dynamics, which is a hybrid of game theory and molecular evolution.
- Drip flow reactor - DFR, a continuous culture, fed by gravity, unlike the flow-cell-biofilm models.

*Coculture classification*

Biofilms made by two or more bacterial species, can be simulated differently. A major factor is when bacteria interact. For example, a mature biofilm aggregate (let's say made by taking alginate, adding to it an inoculum, and then growing in nutrient-rich media) that is *then* added to a liquid culture of another bacterium, would result in colonization-dependent interaction. This makes a heterogenous biofilm.

Otherwise, both species could be added simultaneously, if they can survive in liquid coculture. This has been done with SCFM2, though that media is not easy to replicate. But personally, I prefer the heterogenous cultures. They are easy to extrapolate, should we want to test some kind of antibiotic. The idea is that both drug and bug need to diffuse through a solid media, so we can use a similar technique here.

*Ramblings*

Bacteria, while individually small, can form aggregates, which can have tessellating characteristics. Imagine, for a moment that space can be cut into little cubes of states of variable occupation (these units are called cells). A space may have one bacteria, or another species, or be sterile. My conception now, is that a 'bacterial colony', in the sense of what is visible 'by eye', is contiguously occupied, to say that each unit cell has an occupied neighbourhood.

A good analogy, for the sake of conceptualization, is that of the borders of the world's various nations. There are two key characteristics, one of geography, and the other of topology. The wealth of a landmass may support a greater nation - which has a greater contiguous landmass. But while this describes volume, it does not show the border's shape - how much of a landmass is available, for example, for land-based trade?

Likewise it's important, in the bacterial context, to measure colony shape, and not only volume as key characteristics. This can be done by changing computational resolutions. For example, small unit cells may well show cell-to-cell interactions, and therefore accurate colony volume. Big cells to contrast, will show macroscopic changes, which are better 'big-picture' indicators.

The question is whether there is a trade-off between border length and colony volume? Is there more pressure for larger colonies, by volume, to be more isolationist, and shrink their border size? Or perhaps greater colony perfusion, as in for nutrients, may be a trend in larger bacterial colonies. This could be represented mathematically.

INSERT 3D DLA IMAGE.

And here is what I'll be at the end of this Master's. Having spent too much time in the subterranean confocal room, I will become a vampire not unlike Nosferatu's Count Orlack.

INSERT COUNT ORLACK
