*Experimental multitasking*
- TM15. I need to look at mutants and perform a secondary screen. I'll retry the assay one more time and then double-check with Sam before proceeding.
- Coculture. Need to figure out ratios of cells that permit growth in LB.
- Fluorescence rescreen. I need to optimize 75/76/1.

*FarRed optimization*
Such an experiment needs me to check after how many hours a maximum fluorescence is reached. My screen should provide decent information here. I just need to create a scatterplot of fluorescence.

*Coculture*
It was Michael's pictures that caused me to ask whether we need to do any optimization *before* imaging. He mentioned that cell ratios can affect macroscopic structures.

It's not anything special. I'd need to get an accurate CFU/mL of an inoculum, take the corresponding OD, coculture cell by spotting on LB agar, and seeing how many CFU's of *Pa* and *Sa* are remaining afterwards. That last step will need a selective agar.

I think I've seen people using [Cetrimide agar](http://www.oxoid.com/UK/blue/prod_detail/prod_detail.asp?pr=CM0579) for this purpose. [Mannitol Salt agar (MSA)](https://www.bd.com/en-us/products-and-solutions/products/product-page.211407) will select for *Sa* instead.
My trouble is that we have (A) little left of both and (B) the cetrimide agar we have is unusually labelled: 'ONLY LESB58 + 10mL Glycerol.' Daniel will know.

*Questions for Michael*
I would be very happy if I could get an image quality like what Michael has attached. My questions for him are going to be technical for now but I'd be interested in how he interpreted the images as well later.

I understand that Michael is using an *inverted* microscope. The images are of the bottom of the colony on the *opposite* side of the agarose - is this right? Has he had to optimize the thickness of the agar to balance between the light-path & the agar drying out too quickly?

I also couldn't figure out if the images are from a single planar shot. Are they made from many images along the z-axis (confocal) or from a single shot?

To get such a clear image I'm guessing the culture must be grown on a non-standard agar plate. Could you please send a link to the plates you've been using for these images?
~ Maybe I can ask for a couple of plates from his lab?

*The option-select*
If Michael says he just flipped the plates upside-down we're in a... spot of trouble, like that's pretty annoying. We can try optimize our own protocol for which takes images *through* agarose. The safer bet would be to contact Keith and try and use his confocal microscope.

Only catch with Keith's scope is that we can't do any kind of live-imaging. Just make it clear, Keith owns his own microscope and rents it out on an hourly basis privately (I thought it was owned by the confocal centre.) We can't go through the confocal centre if Michael says that he inverts his plates. Rob said that we can't do stuff like that with the Fenix microscope - which is their only suitable PC2 microscope.

The problem with these experiments is that specialized plates are extremely expensive. I'll forward the list that Rose (confocal centre) sent to me to Daniel. Maybe we can request some samples for free to decide whether they'll be worth the price-tag.

*Sam's evolutionary suggestion*
Compare between [PAO1, LESB58, and PA14](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26483767/).

*Complementation*
We have complementations in mutants from Deb's screen - but whether it's useful or not depends on whether the plasmids are compatible. The compliments use pUC22 and we use 'pUC.'

*Deb's screen*
She compared wild-type USA300, to tn-insertion *Pa* (PAO1, PA14). Also *vice-verse*. We're looking at around 73-74.
Inducing the mutant phenotype (pqs-KO).
- MHQ
But not:
- HQNO
- HHQ

*Free samples!*
Just a list of my requests:
- Ibidi: [8-well glass microslide](https://ibidi.com/chambered-coverslips/252--slide-8-well-high-glass-bottom.html), [2-well glass microslide](https://ibidi.com/chambered-coverslips/179--slide-2-well-glass-bottom.html)
- Labsupply: [24-well black sensoplate](https://www.labsupply.co.nz/Microplates/Microplates/24-Well/SensoPlate-24-well-PS-F-bottom-Glass-bottom-Black-Lid-Sterile-~-PK-12-GRE662892?SearchID=485510&SearchPos=3)
- Mediray: [24-well black sensoplate](https://www.mediray.co.nz/laboratory/shop/consumables/tissue-and-cell-culture/tissue-culture-plates-and-plate-sealers/24-well-sensoplate-with-glass-bottom-black-with-lid-individually-packed-12-pcs-gr662892/)

The bottom two suppliers might get back something relatively quickly.

*University shipping address*
Name. Attn: Pletzer Lab
Building region. Biochemistry Department [LH1]
Building. Biochemistry building
Street Address. 710 Cumberland Street
Dunedin
9016
Otago
New Zealand