*More questions for Michael*
Curious wee image he sent me, I have no idea what it means! Did he take images from the agar plate lid or the from the base?

*Experimental details*

TM15 project:
- I only need 1 biological replicate. I'll take the photos and check with Sam that we can proceed with the re-screen.
- Need to then ask Sam: 6-well or 24-well?
- Deadline Saturday evening.

Far-Red rescreen:
- 6 biological replicates over 3 conditions (wild-type, 75, and 76). Cells will be grown for 16 hours at in a black-welled plate with LB. Optimization tomorrow morning.
- Deadline Saturday morning.

Co-culture:
- Cultures need to be grown for 24 hours due to the inclusion of LESB58. I'll go for 3 replicates as this is a pilot experiment. CFU's will be done Saturday evening and counted Sunday morning. Plates need to be bone-dry.
- Deadline Sunday morning.

Agar thickness optimization:
- Cultures need to be grown for 3-8 hours on agar. Variable agar quantities can be calculated as per the equation for cylinder volume. I've made some example calculations in the following excel spreadsheet (for [Costar 6-well plates](https://ecatalog.corning.com/life-sciences/b2c/US/en/Microplates/Assay-Microplates/96-Well-Microplates/Costar%C2%AE-Multiple-Well-Cell-Culture-Plates/p/3516).)

Quoted to have a surface area of 9.5cm2. The radius must be 1.74cm in theory. Our usual [Nunc plates](https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/140675) have a corresponding area and I measured their radius to be about 1.75cm. So I'll go with *r* = 1.75cm.

Again for 24 wells, Nunc = 1.9cm2. Costar = 1.9cm2. *r* = 0.78cm.

For 12 wells, 3.5cm2. *r* = 1.05cm.

I'll also think about the 24-well plates, though they may be too small to do anything reliably. I'll try both maybe?

Increments for every 0.5mm seem appropriate. I'll try 1uL of culture in the beginning. First run will be 6-wells as they are readily available.

[cylinder-volumes]

*Scatterplots of growth/fluorescence*

First step was fixing the code, now I need to get around to making it human-readable. The RFU calculation is complicated. I start by taking the AUC of the OD per well (not per condition.) These have to be taken in separate data-frames for LB/TSB. Each point is then divided in the same well-wise fashion as before for the fluorescence data.

The plot for LESB58 has many outliers on the upper end but they are not consistent. My guess is this is condensation or the strain somehow forming aggregates. But there could also be some contamination.

[lesb-clumping]

I'll redo LESB58 to rule out competition. Should be straightforward so long as I decontaminate my pipettes.

*Regrowing Sa*
I've optimized FarRed fluorescence. I just need to grow *Sa* in LB to complete my fluorescence screen. Plate reader booked for Wednesday evening (done by 5pm sharp!) 570/635 is pretty much twice as strong as 592/650.

*Mutant and wild-type competition*

NB! My code is not currently correct. I need to change the way my standardization functions. It must NOT take averages for all AUC. Divisions should be kept separated.

I've got a simple assay to tell how much worse at growth the mutants I choose are than the wild-type strains. It'll be used to (A) check the ecological purpose of the gene in within-species interactions (by measuring wild-type co-localization) & (B) check the localization of the mutant as a keystone species relative to the partner species *Sa*.

It's just a growth curve with non-fluorescent wild-type cells (could be empty plasmid perhaps) and a certain amount of the fluorescent mutant cells.

*Ecological RPS*
Down the line a little it'd be nice to try mixing ecological strategies across space. It'd be a way of measuring successional preferences - although I have no idea what to expect! Maybe once I have a set of mutants that represent the ecological modes well I can use them to find mutants that use a hybrid strategy - those that go toe-to-toe with more than one strategy but that can never dominate.

*Literature review*
Why don't I just review Deb's gene lists? It'd be a great way to get an idea of genes that we'd realistically test.

| Gene | Function | Reference | Ecology |
| ---- | -------- | --------- | ------- |
|      |          |           |         |

*Suspension of the present*

When we kill the present there isn't much else to fall back on except the past. And thus we enter the realm of absurdity. Out from theory and into biology.

It also affects our future when our secondary strategy becomes the our primary. We can co-evolve *Pa* and *Sa* that have deficient ecological interactions. What emerges as ideal? (Thanks to Sam for this suggestion. It's very clever! It's like using a small dam to redirect water flow before it reaches a place it can accumulate. Moreover, it suspends bacteria from a standardized evolutionary pipeline.)

Wonderland experiment: can we fuse the *Pa* and *Sa* genomes into a hybrid genome? It would need us to remove the self-determining factor. It'd be curious to see how such an organism evolves.

*Hierarchical parallels*
Funny how some thoughts seem so lucid when they come to us, yet those same moments of clarity are opaque in retrospect. There are two thoughts here and I'm not sure how they are interconnected:

- Frequency of occurrence. This is the central measurement (or mechanism) of the extent that one thing may influence another. Like regulates like. Somewhere here is the steps needed to connect from one thing to another: does the music someone like tell you something about their other hobbies? (Or more to the point, if they rarely return to an album does this tell you something about them?)

- Burden of imagination. Who does the thinking when there are two people in a room? Such a question is not applicable to biology immediately. Think of it instead as how an organism can perpetuate the memory of a past cell or distant organism. The burden of perpetuation must be predictable. My guess is that this burden can be interpreted both ecologically (temporal/spatially) and by Darwinian gain/loss functions (temporal/benefit).

I think that the Darwinian perspective is wonderful for how it is so closely tied in to frequency measurements. If a cell does not have access to a need for some amount of time, it will begin to 'hate' that particular necessity as the gene that connects it to such a resource is under-utilized. In contrast, the cell will be 'satisfied' if that need is readily accessible. Not that the line is always direct, I am thinking more of like how when we are hungry we become extremely moody. A gene may become selfish under certain circumstances. I see no reason why there cannot be a generous gene too.

*Research-grade humour*
From the colloquia-session.

- Mel from Ussher's group had a very cool slide talking about the stigmas surrounding vaccination. I could talk about the way that the disease is diagnosed by licking the forehead in Europe: 'child is fated to die.'
- Lab-member colocalization. Would be a great way to explain basic ecological principles. Try putting the lab into 2 categories (species): 'Maddie/Rory and older' and 'More recent additions'. Sam and Daniel are 'keystone species.'
- Ultraliberal presentation. Would be a great theme for abrogating exotic trade. Green/red for stock-colour. 'Giga-based lifeform.'
- Alex's shirt looks like a Mandelbulb, which reminds me of the patterns in Michael's videos.

- To grill people for not doing chores - My body is a machine that turns dirty tubes into autoclaved tubes. But I want to *share the enjoyment*.

*Laboratory presentation structure*
- (Title slide, which will have 99% of humour)
- PSA: chores
- Thought experiment. Great for theory and can link in lab member 'co-localization.' I'll take a survey of where people sit in the meeting room during Fridays.
- Experimental data.
- 'Ravings of a caffeine-base lifeform.' I'll put open biological problems here.

- Apocalypse-scientist: use Greek lettering
- Puzzle-maker. Tough persona so I'll finish the year with this by presenting the problem as 'filigree'.

*What are the steps to dance a DLA crystal?*