
*Summary*

More reading reading reading with not a whole lot to show for it...

I'll try to write up a simple protocol, to help me talk with the confocal team. But first I'm going to take a look at Lars Dietrich's work, he has a great review titled '[Gradients and consequences of heterogeneity in biofilms](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41579-022-00692-2)'.

---

*Slide-prep for biofilm formation*

INSERT GENE FRAMES

The trouble is making a cast for agar on top of a slide - as this would be the best way to image biofilm formation live. This [paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34513736/) has one way of doing it by adding a 'gene-frame'. The frame is filled with agar then sealed with a coverslip, until the agar has set into a small rectangular shape. This moulded agar can then be cut into smaller pieces for parallel analyses.

They have a time-lapse protocol. It looks like they just used light microscopy, given that their main parameter (phase contrast?) seems to change with exposure time (100ms). But they also mention that they used Pa/GFP and Sa/mCherry. I'm not sure what wavelengths were used to excite the fluorophores.

Got to say that this paper seriously goes hard. I could just pick up their analyses, from where they left of pretty much - and go focus on microcolony behaviour, rather than individual cells.

*The next [paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38617332/) that Daniel sent*

Is also a banger and also complicated. Here is an extended summary.

This George O'Toole guy, from some American university, seems to be a common name found on these important papers. I'll look at his publications, maybe after Lars Dietrich's.

The first section of their discussion, as in 'growing data support the...', has 10 good references.

They use the same method to create agarose cocultures, as the paper in the section above this one - but this paper uses 'resonant-scanning microscopy'. I don't know what this could possibly mean.
They somehow get a single Sa microcolony, then spot Pa at some distance away. The amount of Pa cells that breach the Sa microcolony borders, can be reduced by breaking the Pa pilin - pilA-KO.

Their Sa colony parameters, like edge height and density, were taken with 'galvanometer scanning confocal microscopy'. This was done in addition to phase-contrast microscopy, as over time Pa made less mCherry, and extant mCherry was photobleached. Again Pa would struggle to disrupt the Sa microcolony border, given pilA-KO. They measured colony height, edge roughness, and cell packing at the colony's edge. Loss of Pa anti-staphylococcals, such as the knockout of all of pqsL, pvdA, pchE, and lasA, did not impact invasion, nor colony height.

So what about HQNO, then? They checked this by using a different reporter, with Ldh-bound GFP. This would show how Sa can respond to stress by entering fermentation. This happens and is stronger when Pa surrounds Sa colonies, as if it were suffocating them. It kind of reminds me of the creation of bacterial 'granulomas', during TB infections.

- 'Phenocopied', a nice way to say that one mutant for one knockout gene is enough to describe a mutant for that same gene alongside with others. The complex mutant and the single-knockout mutant are 'phenocopies'.

They used artificial sputum media (ASM) for some experiments, there is a link given but I don't think that it's that easy to synthesize. Note that Pa wipes the floor with Sa in this media given the same model but it's pil-dependent.

In another modification, they looked at pre-formed Sa biofilm invasion. Again it is pil-dependent. I'm not sure how this was done but I presume it just involved pre-incubation, followed by a spot of fresh Pa culture onto the agar pad directly.

*Adaptive antagonism*

Perhaps the relations between Sa and Pa are context-dependent, for example, how close they are to one another. This makes statistical analyses, and their logical interpretation, painfully complicated.

It's kind of like if there was an AND statement, or something else that makes one behaviour resolve, instead of another. Hence the outcome of colony flow-around, needs two prior factors to be positive, but factors that are not co-dependent.

*Different microcolony shapes*

INSERT VIDEO HERE

This is a neat little video that shows how biofilms can be created in real time - the rod-shaped bacteria, *P. aeruginosa*, is very expansionist. In contrast the round bacteria, *S. aureus*, are isolationist.

*My current favourite paper*
[This](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32908166/) one deal with both biofilm heterogeneity, and with homogeneity. I like their use of stains in particular, the main reason being that if we were to use other strains and mutants this would remove the need to do any kind of genetic engineering.

The papers that Daniel sent, however, are way more applicable.

*Stylistics*
- I somehow like it when journals use a **bold typeface** to point towards a novel nomenclature. For example, we could use **TM15** to reduce cell motility.
