*One step forward, two steps back*

Looks like Deb's data is more complicated than not. Daniel had some comments:
- Drying hypothesis. He agrees, citing that Deb's experiments were incubated in bulk (not in the Clariostar.)
- Her mutants which were rescreened are validated to affect coculture stability.
- The metabolic burden of *lux* USA300 is not comparable to wild-type Sa. I could include lux in future experiments.
- Daniel emphasizes uncharacterized genes. Tricky, so I'll focus on establishing a control first.

*Sam's suggestion*: Sa is more resistant to Na+ than Pa. Dry wells have higher Na+ concentrations leading to more Sa growth (more Pa transposon 'hits' that permit Sa growth.)

Probably the top priority is getting microscopy images of a mutant with established heterosis/homosis. I'll read Daniel's book chapter.

Swarming is tricky. We're wrong on all fronts!
- I'll redo the anr, dnr, and nuoL screen against 1018 for Sam. Need to do 0.75ug/mL. Media was BM2. Add a PBS-only control (40uL PBS in 4mL media).
- Daniel's point was our media isn't technically M8 - it only uses M8 salts. Iron comes from the cas-amino acids. He's wanting me to distance myself from the project. I'll keep using it as the occasional punching bag.
- One more shot with the SMIC (tm15, two-fold reductions) for kdp tonight. I'll be lost if nothing works.

*Inverted fluorescence microscope light source*
We'll try flipping light-sources with Rhodri next Thursday at 11. I'll be ready!

*[Reading Daniel's chapter](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-08491-1_15#Abs1)*
I'm looking for genes involved in co-localization.

Despite *Pa* and *Sa* infecting the same host, at the microscopic level it is unclear whether *Pa* and *Sa* occupy similar niches. Results from studies are contradictory. The authors ascribe the inconsistencies to inconsistent sampling: 'the lung is a complex organ in which different infectious niches can be established' - and consequently many types of histological section.
The notice given to infection-site variation is substantial but site variation is rarely delineated on an experimental and analytical level. The most common measurement of *Pa* ad *Sa* localization is colocalization. For example, [in patients with chronic venous ulcers, *Pa* is found at wound surfaces where *Sa* is found deeper inside wounds](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/jcm.01395-09), an example of bacteriological homosis. little attention is paid to finer-grained localization. *Pa* aggregates form unusual 'swirling' patterns in the paper above.

The orthodox perspective had been that *Pa* and *Sa* have strictly competitive interactions in infection. [Exceptions have been made](https://academic.oup.com/femspd/article/76/1/fty003/4803945?login=true):
- In a static liquid culture model, *Pa* increases *Sa* growth between 24-72h.
- As above, *Pa* and *Sa* cocultures form more robust biofilms.
- *Sa* promotes *Pa* adhesion and biofilm formation but not *vice-versa*.
- *Pa* and *Sa* colocalization is not dependent on human proteins.
- In a keratinocyte invasion model, *Pa* increases *Sa* invasion and *Sa* increases *Pa* adhesion.
- As above, polymicrobial biofilms make more toxic supernatants.
Stranger yet is that *Sa* outgrows *Pa* this early in coculture.

Differences in experimental models arise. Murine agar-bead pneumonia models find *Pa* and *Sa* segregated in the bronchial lumen. [Abscesses form where *Pa* attached to agar beads forms the abscess core, *Sa* surrounds the core, and immune cells surround *Sa*](https://academic.oup.com/femspd/article/76/1/fty003/4803945?login=true).

Other papers emphasize localization of nutrients and metals over cellular localization. [Calprotectin seems to promote *Sa* growth in polymicrobial cultures by inhibiting *Pa* production of anti-staphylococcal factors](https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms11951#Sec2) (hcn, pqs, and phz). Note that fpvA and lasA were not implicated in this metal-dependent toxicity.

Co-localization is contextual to the environment. Bacteria frequently form biofilms during infections. A long-standing question is whether *Pa* and *Sa* can co-localize within biofilms - be they clinically-derived or laboratory mimicries. A classical microwell model has *Pa* aggregate at the air-liquid interface and *Sa* at the microwell's base. [*Pa* can facilitate inter-niche transport by acting as a taxi for *Sa* to travel inbetween the air-liquid and well-base niches](https://academic.oup.com/ismej/article/11/8/1933/7538019?login=true).