
*Main plan points for Daniel*

**Premise**
2-3 main measurements: cell heterogeneity (pattern units), cell-ratios (pattern frequency), and temporal variance (change in patterning over time).

**Phase 1**
Strain-specific patterning and optimization.
- Image optimization.
- Image analysis pipeline.
- Inoculum ratios.
- Relevant literature: strain-specific differences, especially evidence for *Sa* and *Pa* co-evolution. What makes LESB grow slow? Convergent/divergent strategies.

**Phase 2**
An experiment-a-week. Genetic determinants of localization. Toolkit for manipulating localization. Coupled feedback loops.
- Deb's data, general literature.
- Relevant literature: established *Pa-Sa* interactions, measuring microcolony heterogeneity. Not as complicated as it seems at first, just need to find one shape that is repeated.
- Ecological pipelines: gene functions -> supporting ecological mode -> expected patterning.

Diffusible interactions:
**Need positive interactions**

- Heterogenous/coexistence (Antagonism): where both *Pa/Sa* produce a commodity, but do not interact. Example: toxic metabolite accumulation. Both make waste ROS & pH (anaerobic core). Species do the same thing! Complement with toxic metabolite (I.E. acid).

- Heterogenous/competition (Predator/prey): where both *Pa/Sa* gain value from death of the opposite species. Look at toxin production and genes that increase susceptibility to species toxins. Could complement with *Pa/Sa*-specific antibiotics.

- Homogenous/coexistence (Mutualism): where both *Pa/Sa* provide an exotic function to their partner. Look at parallels in biofilm behaviour. Both species make EPS, but they likely have divergent specializations - but together they make a stronger biofilm. Need to de-couple the exotic function from one species (I.E. flood media with a metabolite that was gotten from *Sa* before specifically. *Pa* 'values' *Sa* less than before.)

- Homogenous/competition (Parasitism): I believe that this will be the most common interaction. Requires functional asymmetry: *Sa* provides a function that *Pa* lacks, *Pa* does not reciprocate. Extreme case is for *Pa* HQNO that switches *Sa* to an alternative metabolism that makes more of a reduced carbon source for *Pa*.

'Patterns are like footprints of an eco-evolutionary beast. They'll occur more in certain locales and can be forced out of a population.'

**Phase 3**
Clinical applications. Non-genetic complementation. Non-invasive: before/after treatment. Backup strategy knockout. Functions of microcolony structures.
- Drug mechanisms.
- Inter-mutant competition. *Sa + Pa (wt) + Pa (KO)*.

*Caffeine-induced philosophy*

- Science as shamanism. I too often am afraid of scaring people with my work, should I continue to be so careful?
- Synchrony: two of the same thing happening at the same time in different places.
- Frequency: two of the same things happening at the same place in different times.

Time really can just be a circle, huh?
Although I suppose it sometimes isn't. Sometimes time moves in footsteps and sometimes it flies.

*Notes on photography*

It's key to reflect the image I saw when I noticed something unusual. The angles must be those I saw, exactly so. Photos are an example of Frequentist measurements.