*Summary*

Daniel's been a bit stormy these days from all the work he's been to putting into undergraduate labs. I'll keep out of his way and try get what is on my plate finished.
- Tomorrow. Make tissue-culture medium, swarming salts, and LB/LBa. Get strains from the culture collection.
- Weekend - do as many screens of fluorescence as possible. I reckon I can get through all of them but I'll need to be careful with the media conditions. Replan this tomorrow.

More reading will have to wait but it's really about getting a method written then burning it into the ground with criticism. What's the best strains - what's the best culturing technique. That sort of thing :)

---

Not a long update today as I spent a lot of time in the lab. These are just some of the notes that I took - going from media, to presentations.

*Antibiotic information*
[Download antibiotic glossary](https://github.com/marklemzin/marks-masters/raw/main/experimental-setup/13.03%20antibiotic-glossary.xlsx)

*Media information*
[Download media encyclopaedia](https://github.com/marklemzin/marks-masters/raw/main/experimental-setup/13.03%20media-encyclopaedia.xlsx)

*Odd fact!*
Cropped up during a meeting where someone was talking about 'intermediate strains'.  Turns out RN4220, that weird Sa strain, was just a genetic intermediate. It's used for weird plasmids as it's probs easier to transform than LAC USA300 but I should fact-check this.

*Presentation stylistics*
Some great presentations today. Prodip, more than anyone else, really blew it out of the park though. He had some confusing slides, but a very good video of him showing the machine in his laboratory.
- Video showing protocol, or a complex piece of machinery.
- Make comparisons: with a real biological system. For example, how should a machine that simulates the lung, be calibrated, if the healthy lung can exhale 100L? Shouldn't it be 60L to reflect the lung of a CF patient?
- Make comparisons: between techniques. Why did you choose one over another, applies to things like bacterial strains, culturing techniques, and antimicrobials. It's a lot easier than describing/providing rationale. Maddie had a neat table comparing method complexity.
- This is a big one! Make sure to have both data points and the average-trend-line. It's not super hard and a great idea!
