*Summary*

Lots of lab work - so much so that this update has info on 15.03/16.03 too. I've just been getting media ready and making glycerol stocks. Not super-exciting, but it has given me some time to think about my hypothesis.

I think that biofilm development, at least in the classical mode: attachment/adhesion, maturation, then sloughing-off, that sort of thing - would be a neat subject to study!

I need to merge what we know about biofilm development (monomicrobial), and add a little about what we know about polymicrobial biofilms. How does a single species biofilm differ from those with many species? Think of each species as adding a little to the original strategy, in a weird sort of complementation. It's like saying that a house needs to be built by workers with different specializations: drain-layers, electricians, carpenters, for example.

Then the question is how we eradicate it. There'll be a weak point - be it a gene or otherwise. Our drugs should start working better if what makes biofilms polymicrobial, is removed.

---

*Unimarket order: RQ101878*
- 20 x 30mL Luer-lock syringes ($16.00)
- 1 pack x 0.2uM syringe filters ($89.80)

*Biofilm development*

I can take a stable concept of biofilm development, and apply what I know about polymicrobial interactions. Try Daniel's book here, I think it'll have some useful information.

That's where synchrony maybe, would come in useful - we could say that species don't 'interact'. They just happen to do the same thing at the same time!

*Pipette set 10*

Not hugely relevant, but I'm using the set 10 pipettes. Big thing is that I'll have access to my own 5mL pipette. I've put my name on all of them so it should be easy to find the 5 mL, if it gets borrowed.

*Culture collection*

I pulled a bunch of strains from the culture collection, and they all seemed to grow pretty decently. The yield wasn't great for 317 & 318, 370 (but not 369), and 366 (but not 367). These were all PAO1, so maybe it's a bit more sensitive to Gm50, at least compared to PA14. I figured that it'd be best to put them all in liquid culture for the day and make stocks come evening.

I'm running out of plates very quickly so I'll have to rely on liquid cultures for growth-curves in the future.

I had an idea to try growth curves with cocultures, but I need to check resistance profiles. Briefly, Sa is normally susceptible (to Gm50: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6221263/.) It looks like Pa has resistance to trimethoprim (by means of an efflux pump - https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/aac.40.10.2288.)

*TM15*

Ugh. I had a good idea of what mutants to test here but I've just barely forgotten. I'll reread Sam's report tomorrow, maybe it'll come back to me...

Maybe we test the cco mutants? Maybe we test mutants in the Ouroboros, maybe?

I need to warn Sam too, that he wrote the swarming methods incorrectly. Grown in a 'humidity-controlled chamber', that's best not written at all... Peptoids were added to plates then filled with agar and gently mixed.

*Updating the strain/media list*

[Old Pletzer lab protocols](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41522-024-00637-y#Sec12). These here say that for polymicrobial coculture, at least for Pa and Sa, cells need to have 5% FBS, not 10%.

*Fixing the Eppendorf Xplorer*

The battery wasn't great when I first used this pipette but now it's actually unusable. Should be an easy fix though - it just needs a new [battery](https://www.pipettesupplies.com/product/xplorer-xplorer-plus-lithium-polymer-rechargeable-battery-eppendorf/). It'd be alright to use an aftermarket battery, but it should be 3.7V/750mAh.
Daniel is unconvinced. Guess I'll have to use the pipette as is until I can prove that it runs dry overwhelmingly fast.