*Summary*
Tomorrow comes the big day. I'll see if my imaging works and if it does, great! I can take a small break from the CFU/imaging experiments. Instead, I'll focus in on TM15 and co-fluorescence.

If not, I guess I'll continue with imaging as soon as the confocal becomes available.

---

*DBO: the story continues*

No luck with Sapphire biosciences. I've let Daniel know. Here's to the oncoming storm.

... Which never came? Daniel has just let the people in Australia know and asked where we can get more DBO. He said he'll 'keep me in the loop.'

*Coculture CFU*
The bulk of my time has gone into these pilot experiments. I've put the results into an excel spreadsheet. No effort to put them into graph form has been made yet...

[pilot-strain-CFU]

*Notes on coculture experiments*

Time will tell if moisture loss will cause problems with my experiments. I'm not sure if it'll be all that important so long as I dry my colonies properly first. I need to pre-mix my cultures too!

[hotbox-setup]

[oversaturated-mess]

[core-pilot-317]

*Another CFU outcome*

I haven't written much about the outcomes of CFU experiments. There are 2 key outcomes:
- (A) the species grows to carrying capacity.
- (B) the species drops below carrying capacity.
One more underexplored outcome is the case where cell ratios are sufficient to raise the carrying capacity.
- (C) the species grows beyond carrying capacity. For example: a lower inoculum of *Pa* gives *Sa* enough time to grow to provide more of a service to *Pa* cells. Hence, it is good for parasites to *start* at low densities.

I'd love to talk to Spencer about this if I could get such a characteristic result.