*Confocal troubles*
Another frustrating experience. I'll try with the confocal team one more time, maximum. The problem is with plate compatibility. Plates must trigger a mechanical switch to be recognized. Our 6-well plates (Thermo, Nunclon) are slightly too short. Which is strange given [our plate size](https://assets.thermofisher.com/TFS-Assets/LCD/Schematics-%26-Diagrams/140675%20Rosklide.pdf) being the same as what is show on the *Phenix's* plate parameters.

[phenix-parameters]

In any case, I'm going to speak with Antonella about our confocal. I've asked to do a trial run which is supervised by someone else.

... Which is happening tomorrow. Goodness that was insanely quick.

*Brief note on moisture-making*
Agar needs to be fairly dry in the beginning. Spots of culture tend to spread out substantially more on agar that isn't completely dry.

*Peptoid swarming re-screen*
I need to figure out how much peptoid I will need per individual well.

*Logarithmic growth curves*
It looks... [comically straightforward](https://www.statology.org/logarithmic-regression-in-r/). I'll attempt this tomorrow.

*PA14 coculture*
The patterns in the PA14 coculture plate (1:100) appear very much like the light that can be seen at the bottom of a swimming pool. I found this article on Wikipedia about ['light caustics.'](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caustic_(optics)) Maybe there are some models of this pattern?

*Drafting-a-plan*

Overall aim: investigate the genetic/chemical determinants of microcolony heterogeneity in *Pa* and *Sa*.
I aim to work through this problem in 3 steps.

(1) Aim: to optimize a protocol for detecting agar-plate microcolony heterogeneity.

The first phase builds an experimental pipeline. I'll use the PA14, PAO1, and LESB58 strains as they have well-characterized interactions with *Sa* USA300. I'd expect PAO1 and PA14, but not LESB58, to outgrow *Sa* over 16 hours. I can measure growth of *Pa* by imaging colonies for YFP/GFP and can control growth rate of *Pa* by reducing its relative inoculum to *Sa*. Micro-colony patterning will not be strongly explored until the next phase, where I will have a molecular justification for using a particular pseudo-mathematical model to analyse images *in-silico.*

I hope to finish optimization before May.

(2) Aim: to identify genetic factors that can change microcolony heterogeneity.

The second phase iterates my optimized protocol. Every week I'll try run though a pipeline:
- Find a gene in *Pa* or *Sa* that could mediate co-localization (data sources in order of relevance: Deb's biofilm coculture transposon library screen, upcoming murine TnSeq data, literature)
- Read about the corresponding metabolic pathway to find a chemical/drug that can mirror or compliment the knockout-strain's phenotype.
- Transform the corresponding mutant from our transposon-library with a GFP/FarRed-producing plasmid.
- Run coculture plates for counting CFUs and imaging. Perform with or without the compliment as appropriate.
- Measure species proportions (cell growth/death after CFUs) and microcolony patterning (GFP/Red intermixing).
- Assign the gene at least one ecological mode - does the gene promote colony heterogeneity or maybe overgrowth of the partner species?

Chemical compliments can be categorized as 'exotic' (specific to an organism, such as HQNO/PSMs) or as 'commodities' (reactive oxygen species). Drugs can also be used so long as they are effect one species more than another.

I only need to collect enough data to support 4 mutant phenotypes: increased species intermixing, decreased species intermixing, increased species competition, and decreased species competition. For *Pa* and *Sa* this could be as few as 8 mutants but could be substantially more.

(3) Aim: to piece together a timeline of ecological states during agar-plate biofilm development.
Consider *Pa* and *Sa* ecological preferences.

The final phase combines the mutants/chemicals I identified in my screen to put together an order of ecological preferences for *Pa/Sa*. If I can disrupt ecological transitions (for example *Pa* and *Sa* are forced to co-localize) then I can see how *Pa/Sa* interact when they do not co-localize appropriately to stress. Two experimental options:

- Tri-culture against wild-type *Pa* AND *Sa* with the transposon mutant. (*Pa* green, *Sa* red, mutant colourless).
- Treating mutants that cannot make an ecological transition with a chemical that forces an ecological transition. Two sub-strategies: use mutants that force a particular co-localization, or use mutants lacking the ability to co-localize as the wild-type strain would following chemical treatment (knockout of the bacteria's 'backup plan').

I would like to push for at least one experiment of this complexity - even if I feel these are overkill for a Master's thesis (or even a PhD) they'd make for a great way to get a meaningful conclusion from my 'screen' (see phase 2.)

*Your biggest criticism*
The hardest part about ecological problems is finding a decent measurement. I haven't written much about what I'll measure as I haven't thought-of/found any applicable theory - it's a very tricky balance between stochastic realism and idealistic abstraction. Even if I never find the perfect theorem, there's not a huge risk because we only need clearly-different pictures (showing species ratios, maybe species intermixing.)

I'll explain my problem a little more... Let's reimagine the above as if we were tracking an unknown species: (1) confirms that our 'field-tools' are working correctly. (2) logs all the different kinds of 'footprints' that could be left on an agar plate under particular conditions. (3) asks what would happen if we were to take our 'animal' into an unfamiliar environment.
We are searching for the 'footprint' of an abstract ecological 'animal'. What we do when we change strains/media composition is we change the environment that ecological phenomena can manifest. Our core experimental model may rely on mutants, but our measurements are abstract patterns.

As an example:
A fractal 'footprint' must have an underlying fractal process (or reason for being fractal-like.) I know some types of fractal can be made by an 'expanding' force and a concentric 'repelling' force. I could ask whether a gene causes cells to grow outwards, or why cells move away from isogenic neighbours. If we take a mutant in a gene involved in self-recognition (quorum-sensing, for example) then we'd expect the fractal pattern to no longer manifest. I could also ask if we can control how large the fractal pattern can become, or how often fractal patterns happen in an agar-plate colony.