*People*
- Pascal Sirguey from the school of Surveying.

*spatstat*
All analyses gated to the central 1/3 of images.

	quadrat.test
For polymicrobial PA14 @ 16h - X2 = 1054.8
Monoculture - X2 = 619.0667
Looks substantially different. Not sure about the interpretation.

	ppm(mono_ppp, ~1)
	ppm(mono_ppp, ~polynom(x,y,2))
The AIC produced is disturbingly similar between coculture and monoculture PA14. Seems inappropriate.

	pcf(Q_ex, correction="Ripley")
The pair correlation functions for both show intense clustering. Maybe I still have too many data points?

	fd.estim.boxcount(mono_im$v)
From *fractaldim*. Apparently the fractal dimension is 1 for both images. Not surprising - maybe.

*terra: lacunarity*
- Had to code from scratch, using chatGPT. Not overwhelmingly difficult.
No significant difference between curves.

*Cluster processes - advanced spatstat (section 12.3)*
Derived from a [classic paper](https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/2983905.pdf) stating that universes are observed in clusters - hence the 'galaxy cluster' as the basic unit. Parents may stay in place, but are imagined to be replaced by their offspring.
Some assumptions are necessary but when fulfilled the process can be called a 'Neymann-Scott' process. Multigenerational models are possible but not covered by spatstat (unfortunately).

*Thoughts*
I have two separate problems: one simple and one substantially more complicated.
- Mapping growth of FarRed-expressing strains is relatively simple. A regular cox model should suffice. I then ask how well the predicted clusters fit the actual data. If fits are poor, then the progeny generation cannot be homogenous.
- The other is understanding PA14 microcolony development. Microcolonies appear to cluster but expansion styles are uncertain. Best defined as a heterogenous clustering process - but best handled using cellular automata.
No ways to validate cox processes yet.

I have two simple solutions though:
- The prevalence of Red should really just be estimated by measuring intensity readings. Circular expansion is good, yes, but monstrously complex. Voronoi processes, cluster processes, and more specialized algorithms (Fisher-Kolmogorov) are all fantastic but extremely difficult to implement in a polymicrobial setting (two types of stochastic agent.)
- Analyses of quadrant intensity kills the developmental processes of *Pa* and *Sa* (and the most interesting part of this assay) but does crudely estimate homogeneity.