*Media rugosity*
Promotes vastly different microcolony morphologies upon disruption. I could speak to Daniel about mucin? Maybe about bringing in a 'bass' speaker too.

*Colabfold*
I've upgraded to colabfold pro. Hopefully Daniel will be happy to reimburse me the $20. I get 100 units and use around 1.4 units each hour. $20 for ~70 hours doesn't seem unreasonable. Hopefully I'll be able to analyse my proteins for less than $5.

*One must imagine Mark happy*

[Anti-*Sa* therapeutics research has begun to target *Sa* transitions between metabolic states in response to environmental cues](https://academic.oup.com/femspd/article/75/1/ftx005/2926030?login=true).
- *agr*-targeting antimicrobials form the bulk of anti-virulence therapies against *Sa*. Savarin is a compound that inhibits *agrA* binding to downstream promoters. Variants of AIP (the autoinducer) of with irreversible *agr* binding have also had some successes. MAB's against AIC can provide a 'drain' to the autoregulatory system's signalling. Diflusinal - an anti-inflammatory drug - is able to reduce *Sa* virulence without reducing *Sa* growth. Characteristic of these therapies is that resistance does not emerge after passaging cells with the antimicrobial (both *in-vivo* and *in-vitro*.) Some evidence exists that *agr*-disrupted strains have increased resistance to conventional antimicrobials - suggesting antagonism between antibiotics and *agr*-targeting interventions.
Diflunisal @ [Sapphire Biochem](https://www.sapphirebioscience.com/search?q=Diflunisal)
- *sarA*-inhibitor 'sarABI.' A molecule identified in a computational screen. Inhibits *sarA*. Provides inhibition of biofilm and virulence factor production in low-*agr* strains of *Sa*.
- Baulamycins. Inhibitors of siderophore production. Blocks activity of the siderophore synthase.
- Generally there are fewer inhibitors of intracellular processes. The first is trans-membrane drug transport (out-ruling protein-specific antibodies as therapeutics), non-toxic inhibitors, and handling *Sa*'s signalling redundancies.

*A change of pace: stealing Daniel's references*
The orthodox perspective is that biofilms exist as a sub-category of bacterial infections. A concomitant increase in patient comorbidities, pathogen adaptation, and environmental hygiene has led to bacterial infections becoming unavoidable and in some cases, untreatable. Bacteria form biofilms as a component of their infectious lifecycle. Biofilms reduce cell susceptibility to antimicrobials by changing cell metabolism and by physically blocking drug diffusion from cells.
- Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria differ primarily in terms of intrinsic resistance mechanisms. The outer membrane (OM) of Gram-negative bacteria limits antibiotic susceptibility. Divergent evolution in central pathways can cause drugs to becomes either Gram-positive or Gram-negative specific (Aztreonam; Gram-negative PBPs.)
- Biofilm formation follows a consistent prescribed course. Bacteria attach to a surface, either biological (endocarditis, burns, CF) or prosthetic material (catheters, vascular devices, orthopaedics.) Preliminary multiplication forms micro-colonies. Development and maturation follow. Segments of the biofilm may detach as nutrients are drained or cell density reaches a critical mass. Mature biofilms have complex internal intracellular signalling networks.
- Biofilm components can be locally-produced (bacterial EPS) or originate from the host (fibrin and platelets.)
- Bacteria in biofilms have altered lifestyles. Cells deeper in the biofilm have less access to oxygen and nutrients but are also further away from potential stressors like antibiotics. The 'slow breathing' of cells deep within biofilms can be enough to protect cells from antibiotics requiring a replicative metabolism.
- [Weak organic acids (WOA.) A historically-documented treatment for biofilm eradication](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5481657/). Evidence exists for acetic acid and citric acid (2-5%) being used to treat wound infections. Active against *Pa*. Commonly used in food preservation. MOAs include acidification, lipid membrane modification, and metabolic disruption by degradation (acetic acid turns into acetate - a key component of the Krebs cycle.) Resistance appears to be inducible but differs between day-to-day stress and heritable resistance.
- Photo inactivation. Demonstrated for both *Pa* and MRSA. Blue light (405nm) kills biofilm-resident cells. Pigments may be important for resistance to UV. *Sa* produces triterpenoid carotenoids (colony golden color) for example. Pigments may also act as antioxidants.
Could indicate *Pa* sensitivity to *Sa*-fermentation-dependent acidification.
Food preservatives as medical interventions. Salt, acid, alcohol. Plant extracts.
Flooding with waste products. Lactate. Maybe removing capacity to de-toxify the environment.

*A black box, association and dissociation*
Polymicrobial biofilms function as ecological 'black boxes.' The way the gears align in the machine can say much about its functionality.