*Summary*

Lots of time spent writing the plan from yesterday. I still have some sections to go and it will only be finished early next week, I hope! A touch slow but it'll be better to get some more references embedded.

---

*Experimental flow*
Got the all-clear to ignore TCM, as well as Gm50. Looks like I only need 1 plate for 14 strains. I'll try and finish my screen this weekend maybe?

Things I did this weekend:

- Took a look at GFP PAO1/PA14 strains. LB, without antibiotics. My PAO1 wells, though they should act as controls to fluorescence, seemed to fluoresce at 395/509nm. [This paper](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00284-010-9722-2) has some of the values for fluorescence of PAO1. Pyoverdine: 405/450nm. Pyochelin: 350/450nm. It looks like there could be some fluorescence detected, at least at 395/509nm (wtGFP).
- Racked a bunch of pipette tips - we've moved onto a new brand called Tarsons. They don't fit our multichannels well, but I'll try them and see if any problems emerge.
- Gentamicin stock. Gm50, in mqH2O.
- Made stocks of 323/324 (PA14-GFP). Used some of the over-day cultures (LB Gm50) that were resuspended in PBS, to an OD600 of 1. Final glycerol conc. 25%.

*Playing .avi files*
I've had success with VLC player. Turns out the stock windows programs are insufficient.

*New unimarket account*

GL.10.LI.M29.3279.00

*The plan: following from yesterday*

From a more practical perspective, I need to answer the question of how I should tackle identifying relationship-genes, biofilm imaging, and theoretical analyses. I'll write about those below - not too much detail for now though... that'll come when I get started doing actual work! For now I'll keep to lots of open concepts, so that maybe a couple will be worth following up on (but truthfully, I'd like to try and do *everything*. I don't like to compromise, and it'll give me lots of little puzzles to try rather than a single unfathomable experiment.)

[literature-areas]

*This is an abstract diagram, I know - but it helps me see where I need to focus my readings! The things missing here are experimental models, and mathematical models. They're both better covered by existing reviews, but I'll write a brief commentary below.*

But I'll start with where I can find genes that conform to a particular cellular relationship. This'll help me categorize the literature, as well as interpret complicated data. I'm thinking about how to interpret our TnSeq-data. We may know what genes are essential, but I think I could go a little deeper and guess their cell-level relevancy too.

- Mutualism. 'Exotic goods.' The broad idea is that cells that do similar things, such as biofilm formation, likely somehow have a benefit, hopefully selectable, from their neighbouring species. I think of this as exotic trade. We all want to have cool things - and the culture of the globe has grown around trading goods - but the way this is done by one culture may be independent of another. The goods we trade are different, even though we've all 'co-evolved' to trade. We assume that *Pa* and *Sa* follow similar strategies, or maybe pathologies, during their infection strategies, though the exact way they do something differs - like making different EPS species. Hence - can an exotic polysaccharide (from *Sa*), be good for *Pa* biofilms? To extend beyond *Pa* and *Sa*- maybe more distant species produce more exotic, and more desirable genes, and there is more incentive to cooperate. I think is a cool way to think about mutualism: more as a way of enforcing cellular cooperation, to bring distant species together (as the opposite to kin-selection.) To this end - I'd look at parallels between *Pa* and *Sa* monomicrobial biofilm formation, and try and pick out genes that I feel do similar things, then test mutants in those genes to see if there are losses in biofilm integrity. I.E. I think that both *Pa* and *Sa* use surfactants (I think of this as bacterial dishwashing liquid) to mature their biofilms. Does *Pa* then benefit from *Sa* surfactant, or *vice-versa*? I can use the model of biofilm phases to categorize genes. For example, genes that are key for maturation for *Sa*, could also benefit *Pa* for maturation (maybe stuff like PSM's.)

Theoretical assumptions: strains have minimal coevolution. I need to read up on the sources of LESB58, PA14, PAO1, LAC USA300. If they come from coinfected patients, then there might be a bias towards mutualism. This makes it hard to infer whether mutualism itself, or the properties of the strains, are more important to biofilm integrity. This idea works best when cooperation is incidental, as the focus is simply on exotic gene trade.

- Antagonism. 'Exotic exclusion.' How does a cell tell that it is itself? This comes up the most in problems about bacteriophage immunity, but it's kind of neat to ask why things like HQNO/pyochelin, act against loads of other bacteria, but not *Pa* itself. Even stranger is that they double as economically-relevant molecules, where one is a quorum-sensing particle, and the other is a siderophore. I think that the best way to think of these is in-built cheater-exclusion, so that pirate species cannot hijack the economy of producer-cells. This is just very extreme for *Pa*, where the defence chosen is actually aggressive. I prefer to think of antagonism, as a kind of cell-to-cell relationship, as just cells that really do not want to cooperate. So it's best here to look at unique processes, ones that one cell does that another cell doesn't. Something like the secretion-system of *Pa* (I think this is not found in *Sa*) could be a good case for something that is decidedly exclusionist. Things that one bacterium makes, that one has no parallel in another species, could be a good case for a potential antagonist. This is the opposite case, where fundamentally exotic goods, something overwhelmingly different, causes cells to be too different to cooperate.

Again I feel that coevolution is a problem. This would temper cellular antagonism, as cells would be more used to encountering an antagonist, making them more likely to be part of the cell's adaptational system somehow. Even something like HQNO, perhaps can be used by *Sa* to downregulate metabolism, and resist the broader immunological threat. This is no longer 'antagonism'.

- Parasitism. As one of the unilateral interactions, it's key to first ask how these would be different from those described before. I feel that where I before put emphasis on exoticism, it's key to look at similarities instead. Here cells cannot tell one another apart, and instead act as a fused meta-organism. You might say - 'but Mark! What about crossfeeding, or something like it? It relies on cells using similar nutrients -acting something like a meta-organism. Don't people say that these are mutualistic interactions, which you said earlier relied on species being able to distinguish others, right?' To which I answer that's right - but what I mean here is that there must be an inter-species gradient, an energy differential, not unlike the one that makes the electron-transport chain, to make a meta-organism. Biology can be a cascade, it does not need to always be in equilibrium. When I say meta-organism, I think of a one-way biochemical reaction, one that flows through multiple organisms. What matters here is that there *aren't* parallels, that cells do different things, but that they somehow fit together into a singular system. I've always felt that this is the core of the biological miracle. Somehow - everywhere, things just get along! But returning to parasitism, I guess it could also be called cellular generosity, where goods are given to another cell, without any apparent benefit. I prefer the term parasitism, as it is a more evolutionarily realistic strategy. In parasitism, I focus on something that one cell does that can repress another cell's processes. Unlike predator/prey interactions, it's less complete, and instead acts like a repressor, if we are to think of cells like a genetic signalling network. It's a great way to think about this sort of thing - an intercellular signalling network. Something like HQNO, for the benefit of the biofilm, makes *Sa* make lactate, a carbon source for *Pa*, but never outright kills the source of lactate. That would be like a cell regulator, something like an anti-sigma factor, that just excises the gene it represses from the genome. You may think that this would be absurd, but there seems to be a lot of work being done on bacterial chromatin, and extragenomic structures, which can lock a gene away so tightly that it would seem that it is not there at all!

Here we care about the opposite, these are more believable interactions, so long as we know that there has been co-evolution. It makes sense that cells would make the gradients between them more efficient, if they knew that they would be encountering other species frequently. Maybe some strains have co-evolved more, so have more unilateral interactions. Note that this is not my goal to experimentally verify, but rather to use this as the basis of my model - I only care about whether one type of cellular relationship (parasitic etc,) confers some type of clinical benefit, at least more than another. You could say that these are proxies for measuring coevolution, but that is not my research goal - I think that these are fundamental to biology, and what comes from coevolution, rather than another way to predict clinical outcomes. It is not that coevolution makes difficult-to-treat infections, but rather that the downstream relationships (after years of evolution) that make difficult-to-treat infections. Evolution is not a mechanism, it is more like fuel to an ecological engine.

- Predator/prey. The past paragraph(s) were confusing, at least to me when I'm reading them in retrospect. Cells don't really recognize the other, at least in true predator/prey associations, it's more like an extension of the cellular metabolism. It's like how something like a glycogen stock, in a eukaryotic cell, would be removed from the cell entirely, when under metabolic stress. So what does this mean for whether genes can co-occur or not? It's pretty easy for bilateral relationships, to guess which genes could be significant (look at parallel processes.) This is less the case for unilateral behaviours. Maybe what matters most is the distinctive behaviours. It makes sense that cells would create distinctive cellular functions, such that they keep a functional niche. This kind of plays into an idea where cells avoid conflict, when conflict is unfavourable.

*A note to myself - I've made it sound like there is a hierarchy at play, where evolutionary processes can 'emerge' into ecological complexities. I'm not sure I agree with the 'emergence', one of the elements of this perspective, but there remain some salvageable points. One is that there is an order of complexity: is there not a certain subservience, at least in the imagination, of fuel to an engine? It's much like how force may be thought to drive a velocity, the pilot to a grand mathematical plane (as in Cartesian plane.) But there remains this nagging thought in my mind - is something missing? I've felt that the fundamental mode (of a hierarchy) should be a dichotomy, which is what I have with an ecological model. But doesn't the presence of evolutionary dynamics, as a theoretical model, imply that there is something yet-more-fundamental? I guess the world doesn't have an 'ecological dichotomy' so far as we think about the real problem - the temporal dimension: that's the 3rd axis. Maybe what matters most is how cell-to-cell relationships change. In which case I still have a long way to go - such science is well beyond my capacity.*

Again I reiterate, my idea is to take a lot of little experimental puzzles, and to compare and contrast them using a single overarching medical concept, as a reference point. The hard part isn't the comparing and contrasting, but rather how we assign thing to a different condition. What makes an inter-species trade? - I want this to be the hardest part - with the end result of biofilm mass or antibiotic susceptibility (or any other clinically-relevant assay) as the 'cherry on top'. I've talked a little about my thoughts on the evolutionary basis, and I guess that adding measures of evolutionary distance, as another statistical predictor variable, could be a fun little addition, but it's further back on the mechanistic line, than the ecological relationships. I think that it doesn't act a confounder here.

I myself have concerns about how 'biological' evolution is. It's more like a language of measurements, than a defined biological story. I'm worried that evolutionary dynamics, in their most abstract forms, can occur in many different subjects, in distant fields not even related to biology. Spatial localization, as a parameter, is not something that is implicit in evolution. I feel that this is key to the ecological perspective. Whether this is a better way to look at biology, I guess - is the question here!

[logical-flow]

*Colloquia notes*
- Daniel's presentation. Very neat little slide that describes 'deep learning.' It falls within a circle within a circle - which shows how it is a subsection of AI, and machine-learning. What a great way to show the field that we work in!