*Reading! Reading for the Reading Gods!*
An older systematic review of hospital-acquired infections identified global occurrences and costly treatments. Surveillance is limited even in high-income countries - the identification of HCAIs is challenging and aetiology rarely clear. HCAI rates vary from 5.7-19.1% between hospitals. Rates are higher in low-income nations. ICU rates are higher at around 30%. Higher rates are also associated with invasive devices. Impacts include increase inpatient stays, long-term disability, increased AMR, and patient mortality.
HCAI is not evaluated annually by the WHO.
- HCAI are most commonly considered in acute-care and high-income contexts. Focus is shifting away from in-hospital care to patients receiving at-home or community care. Longer-term care settings like geriatric wards have patients acquiring HCAIs around 1-3 times per year. Other predictors include comorbidities: trauma-induced immunosuppression (natural response) or neutropenia (lower neutrophils).
- Individual case studies have found that in the subsequent long-term antibiotic therapy of HCAIs patients can develop secondary infections - something like *C difficile* or Candidiasis.
- *Sa* was (2011) the second most-isolated HCAI pathogen. *Pa* sits at third place. For ICU infections *Sa* is the most-isolated pathogen followed by Enterobacteriaceae and *Pa*.
- Similar organisms cause infection in low-middle-income nations. Many organisms are also AMR (I.E. 64% of MRSA).
- At a more systemic note HCAIs do lead to a paranoia of the validity of healthcare systems - a curious phenomenon.
- Funding is limited in the research of HCAIs. More epidemiological studies are needed to get a global prediction of HCAI trends.
- Interventions include hand hygiene (surfactants), environmental cleaning (harsh antimicrobials), water sanitation (chlorination, ozonation), and sterilization (heat and chemical inactivation - bleach/trigene).

Got to say *I love* the density of pictures in the WHO documents - even if they're unrelated. Maybe I could include lots in my introduction. I'll steal the whole formatting. The whole thing is so readable.

*Grease for an engine*
