From ['_Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ reference strains PAO1 and PA14: A genomic, phenotypic, and therapeutic review'](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9607943/#abstract1)
PAO1 originates from a [spontaneous Chloramphenicol-resistant mutant of PAO](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2812968/) that originated from a wound in Melbourne, Australia. Associated with Holloway's lab. Not all PAO1 are the same due to laboratory passaging. Different PAO1 strains can have different phenotypes.
PA14 was isolated from a burn wound in a hospitalized patient in Pennsylvania. 

PA14 has a greater proportion of unique accessory genome elements (~7%) as compared to PAO1 (0.5%). So PAO1 as a lab strain is likely more reflective of accessories found clinically.
PA14 is a model for hyper-virulent infections. The pathogenicity islands PAPI-1 and PAPI-2 likely contribute to such virulence. PA14 also has elevated phenazine biosynthesis (an antimicrobial).
PAO1 instead has enhanced attachment to surfaces but is otherwise inferior in virulence. Perhaps PAO1 is somehow less immunogenic and so can better facilitate chronic infections.

PA14's heightened virulence has also been attributed to mutations in *ladS* and *exoU*.
Both strains differ in exotoxin production. Toxins are exported *via* the T3SS.
- PAO1: *exoS, exoT, exoY*
- PA14: *exoT, exoU, exoY*
*exoU* is a phospholipase and *exoS* is related to *exoT*.
CF isolates tend to be PAO1-like. Such strains have reduced expression of *exoY*. But PAO1 can express virulence factors strongly in other contexts (murine corneal model; *exoT*.) So no strong consensus exists about the virulence of PAO1.

The authors identify not strain-specific difference in chemotaxis. I am sceptical but I guess the differences I see between PAO1 and PA14 in biofilm patterning are more attributable to QS.
PA14 has reduced expression of the QS repressor *qslA*.

*Pa* has been used as a system to investigate population dynamics. *lasR* and *pvdS* mutants 'cheat' by not producing siderophores or exoproteases which the wild-type strain provides. The wild-type strain eliminates cheaters *via* HCN production. Dynamics can become more stable *in-vivo* or [in colony biofilms](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5414003/).

PAO1 attachment is facilitated by the surface-recognition signalling pathway - mediated by *wsp*. PA14 surface attachment is dependent on recognition of nearby cells - mediated by *chp*. *in-vivo* biofilms tend to be more heterogenous with 'spongiform' appearances. *in-vitro* biofilms tends to be more homogenous but my colony biofilm model seems to handle this better than other models which can produce unrealistic mushroom structures.

Another form of optimism is that for quorum-sensing molecule quenchers (QSIs): *Vibrio alginolyticus* extracts, cranberry extracts (proanthocyanidins), and metal-circumin complexes all have notable activity in inhibiting quorum-sensing systems and their downstream phenotypes (biofilm production, cytotoxcity.)

[PAO1 and PA14 are representative of most clinical isolates](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4702867/) as a part of the 5-clade nomenclature system for *Pseudomonas aeruginosa*.

I could recommend the use of clinical strains for polymicrobial analyses in the future: the literature seems to be [optimistic about this](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29897457/).
Some references included about the change of metabolic strategies under anaerobic conditions. Specific focus is given to the CF lung: [1](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6835255/), [2](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6377615/), [3](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6989791/). Reference '2' here looks at colony biofilms.
Host-mimicking conditions appear important for microbial colonization. Phosphate-deficient media (mimicking a host shortly after chemotherapy) reduces PAO1 phenazine production.
Biofilm hyper-production can be achieved by *wspF* or *shrA* KO.