
*25.03 continued*

Bringing everything together, biofilms can be thought of as many multigenic feedback loops, which are under control of a their spatial localization. Distance in a biofilm can be thought to be relative, with genes having a function based on which gene functions are found in the same locale. With this we can start guessing which genes are in certain types of ecological relationships, and subsequently, how a gene can be visualized 'macroscopically.'

**Mutualism**

Where species exchange exotic functionalities. Think of this as the evolutionary middle ground. Species must make products that are like each other enough that they are mutually recognizable, but not like each other enough that they become commodities. A great example is the extracellular matrix. Both *Pa* and *Sa* are evolutionarily distant, but they both use a biofilm as part of their lifestyle. The reasons that both exist may be evolutionarily divergent (as an example, the *Sa* biofilm is geared to towards infections possibly, and the *Pa* biofilm is better in more situations, maybe) but both are like each other enough that they can form a synergistic matrix.

I think genes that make similar products (like the EPS) are likely to be involved in mutualism. A brief search of polymicrobial interactions, or monomicrobial parallels, should be good to locate more possible mutants to investigate.

*Symmetrical swarming*
Part of Mark's monthly comedy experience. 'Minute of Schizophrenia.' Ravings of a caffeine-based lifeform.

[hexagon-symmetry]

[swarming-symmetry]

Am I the only one?

'Genetic crop circles'

'Like a bubble that pops at the seams - and reveals a hexagon underneath'
'The skeleton of liquids'

- Hexagonal = 2-dimensional icosahedron. The most stable shape besides a circle - one made of discreet elements.

Suggests a single genetic switch, rather than a response to a hormone (would be perfectly circular).

*Sources of laboratory-grade humour*
- Disco Elysium thoughts (I.E. Magnesium-based Lifeform, Volumetric Shit Compressor)