Funny how we return to exactly where we begin, always. I started the project wanting to avoid a severely complex perspective. I feel differently now; bacterial colonies are decidedly a macro-organism. No perspective is valid without accounting for multicellularity. Most similarly I suppose, to the way we perceive our own bodies or psychology: a collection of *distinct* functions.
The *distinct*-ness is what disturbed me previously. Biologically relevant functions are all self-determined in that they themselves are somehow the subjects of their functionality. How can *distinct*-ness be a function? Can we segregate what is already set apart?
The answer is *yes*. The kinetics of separation and specialization of cells into distinct sub-populations is a biologically relevant function. Cell sub-populations are not only distinct but also located in different places. Such 'organization' is, as in classic developmental biology - biologically sourced - *cells* are the source of *cellular* organization. Yet *cellular* organization extends beyond the membrane and into intracellular space. Cells are still interacting with cellular products when they spread *via* biofilms as biofilms are not an environmental default. Likewise biofilms interacting with biofilms is still a biological process. I doubt any chemical interactions occur between biofilms by themselves. Their sole purpose is to exclude foreign biofilm by occupying space.
But do cells interact differently with foreign biofilm? A curious question. One not relevant to the process of exclusion facilitated by biofilms. I call the function of biofilms 'constriction' because biofilms remove ecologically neutral space. Other functions are impacted because they must localize differently in response to their segregation. Functional segregation and 'constriction' are identical concepts.