*tm15 progress*
Things are cooking along nicely. I'll get the mutants streaked out for tomorrow. Details as from [12.03](https://github.com/marklemzin/marks-masters/blob/main/notes/12.03.md).

| Gene name | 'PA14 NR Set Well' | 'Parental Library Source Plate Well' | 'PA14 NR Set Plate' |
| --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| *anr*     | D9                 | F11                                  | PAMr_nr_mas_02_4    |
| *dnr*     | E7                 | E1                                   | PAMr_nr_mas_06_1    |
| *nuoL*    | A12                | B1                                   | PAMr_nr_mas_05_3    |
Sam will hopefully help. I have no clue where each mutant is located.

Note: columns/rows of plates are read after the library has been shifted outwards. The leftmost 'column 1' is at the back of the -80C. The rightmost column is at the front of the -80C.

*Various experimental notes*
Accumulated over the weekend. Starting two experiments every day was the biggest difference in technique. Time spent thinking in the laboratory is still useful, so long as I record my thoughts accurately.

- Prehumidify the 'bacterial sauna.' Ensures minimal moisture loss. Once the box humidifies it sits around 40% at 36C.

- Mix serial dilutions well. Around 20 times in 180uL of media when transferring 20uL. Eppendorf tubes are ideal. Vortexed tubes give pretty much perfect 10-fold dilutions.

- Selective media should cool off overnight prior to adding antibiotics. The waterbath is perfect.

*Henrik's seminar*
Fantastic stuff. He jumps a little quickly to conclusions but offers a compelling story - that story being of a futile cycle. I could sense Daniel's disbelief. Frankly, I'm on Daniel's side. I cannot tell how strongly the cell's membrane cycling affects bacteriostasis.

Neat experiments:
- Vancomycin-dependent length fluctuations. 5-6 cycles before lysis.
- Respiration disruption and ROS induction. Use sodA and katA mutants.
- Long-term MICs to differentiate when bacteriostatic drugs become bactericidal.
- Membrane fluctuations were K+ (kdp) and turgor-linked. Cell density proxy by viral particle movement. Also consider mechano-sensors.

Technical notes:
- Phase contrast for differentiating lysed and unlysed cells (black/grey).
- Voltage-sensitive dyes for membrane depolarization. Membrane-impermeable dyes for membrane permeability.
- SCVs have disrupted respiration. Loss of haem commonplace.

Philosophy:
- 'Seeing is believing.'
I swear I've heard Daniel say something similar.
- Antibiotics should have many downstream effectors.
The more I hear it the more I doubt it.
- Mechano-sensors allow controlled membrane leakage. He calls disruption 'controlled sub-lethal death.'
Uninhibited genius. Extremely clever. I wish the whole presentation covered 'controlled destruction.' Un-homeostatic homeostasis is such an evolutionarily risky strategy.

Presentation style:
- GIFs at a click are fantastic. Scientific videos on virtually every slide.

*A nagging thought, the logarithmic curve*
I'll have a go writing the 2-dimensional interpretation of the logarithmic curve. I will find 2 main problems:
- Homogeneity-heterogeneity. Forms changing shape cause serious problems. Comparing circles and squares is like comparing apples to oranges.
- Sequence-synchrony. Ensures a standard biological time. Time's arrow shoots ever-onwards (or in circles sometimes.)

*Various photos*

[red-clocktower]

[freezer-totem]