*A setback!*

I forgot my keycard today, I'll return home around lunchtime for it.

*TM15 errors*

I messed up the protocol twice over the weekend. Special attention to two factors:
- Resuspension medium. Use LB if necessary but prefer the spent medium. Do not use PBS.
- Agar concentration. Seems simple enough, surprisingly easy to add an incorrect amount. Use 0.5g per 100mL of mqH2O.

*Unit conversions*
For the beginning of my methods.

- 1% means 1g/mL in 100mL of solvent.
- 1M means 1mol in 1000mL (1L) of solvent.

*Overnight coculture stability*

[overnight-stability-simple]

AHHHH. Why won't you stop using alphabetical order?

*Bifurcation diagrams*

Like the sun!

*Initial inoculum*

Sits around 500,000 CFU of *Sa* for a 1uL inoculum. Same for LESB58. Only around 5,000 CFU for PAO1 and PA14.

*Re-planning*

[curve-variations]

Things we could do with a typical growth curve.

(A) Add a disturbance. I imagine a chemical (anti-biofilm drug) or mechanical abrogation (pipette-tip mixing of colony biofilm) of the colony biofilm. We ask how flexible/resilient the community association is.

(B) Add an invader. I think our invader could be a *Pa* mutant that grows better than wild-type *Pa*. The invader does not necessarily have to better kill *Sa* (maybe it is better-adapted to cohabitation), it must only outgrow the wild-type.

(C) Produce a triculture. Similar to (B) but instead uses 3 strains from the outset of the experiment: wild-type, wild-type partner, and mutant. Asks how a novel phenotype can spread through the population. The better-adapted strain (be it wild-type *or* the mutant) should start at a higher density.

The project almost sounds like *too* much fun.

*Meditations*

I feel like my presentation needs a slide on ecological theory. A couple of considerations:
- I had previously planned on running away to join the veritable circus that was Sergio's lab - up until Sergio ran away from the university of Otago.
- The origin of ecological theory is in demography. Let's do a demographic experiment: consistency (Daniel and Sam as keystone species), then homogeneity (newer students take seats near Daniel/Sam - given no other seats are available) or heterogeneity (older student take seats near Daniel/Sam - given their familiarity with them.) Relative consistency (chaotic patterning in remainder of lab), then homogeneity (great mixing implies no neighbour preferences) or heterogeneity (predetermined pairings - could be gender, friendships, laboratory experience, etc.)

Occam's razor:
- The simplest path towards niche generation is to carve out a literally isolated physical plot (of land.)
- I am interested in proteases.