*Things to investigate*

- Blue! Daniel has given me a culture collection ID for *E. coli* carrying cyan fluorescent protein (CFP). Unfortunately the plasmid's resistance determinant is Kanamycin. *Pa* is intrinsically resistant to kanamycin - but I'll give it a go regardless. We might have to do some cloning later.

| *E. coli* culture collection ID | Plasmid   | Resistance | Origin        | Insert |
| ------------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------- | ------ |
| 344                             | pSEVA247C | Km         | pRO1600/ColE1 | CFP    |

- Deb's tn-seq data. Looks like the Pa against PaSawt sheet was correct. Sam mentioned a comparison to a paired pool coculture which was assumed to be better-adapted to coculture. A much more difficult analysis.

- Culturing on mucin. Requires a fairly absurd sterilization step. Daniel recommends just autoclaving. [I'm aiming for a final concentration of 0.05%](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-019-0581-8#Sec2). I'll try adding it directly to media.

*Re-reading (again and again)*
Various papers on *Pa*-*Sa* interactions.
- [Criteria for coculture models reflective of clinical settings are extensive](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1524-475X.2008.00434.x): (1) triculture of *relevant* strains, (2) cooperative bacterial growth, (3) biofilm formation, (4) single-species dynamics are measurable, (5) quantification of biofilm formation, (6) includes major host factors like damaged tissue, RBCs, and plasma. Plasma seems to improve *Pa* and *Sa* biofilm formation. Chopped-meat media formulations are likewise important. *Pa* and *Sa* appear to co-localize under these conditions. *Pa* is selectively susceptible to both Gallium and Triclosan where *Sa* is resistant. *Sa* coagulase can clot fibrin in the media to create novel spatial niches.
The emphasis on bacterial growth 'synergy' (cooperation) is unusual.
- *Sa* coagulase can create a biofilm-adherence surface by activating the firbinogen clotting cascade. *Sa* and *Pa* typically reach a population 'equilibrium' in *in-vivo* and wound-mimicking coculture models. Cocultured biofilms in a Lubbock-wound model confer gentamicin resistance to *Sa*. The suggested mechanism is HQNO-mediate respiratory suppression of *Sa* by *Pa* (which alters membrane charges and therefore AG permeability.) Appears to be dependent on *Sa* production of biofilm (*ica*). The host-defence matrix has an analogous effect on *Pa*-mediated *Sa* gentamicin resistance. Colocalization apparent under EM. [Loss of **both** *Sa ica* and *Pa algD* is enough to eradicate both species.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4249327/)
Could be an inter-species complementarity between *ica* and *algD*. Eradicate parallel functionalities and the integrity of the community falls. Great for identifying key extracellular factors contributing to community stability.



*Un-culture*

My wild-type PAO1 seems to not overgrow Sa overnight - even when inoculated at a 1:1 ratio with *Sa*! I'll do CFUs in tandem with my planned afluorescent strain experiments.

*Time dilation*
