Aha! You've found some of my archived notes. You, dear reader, have gone far from the beaten path. I write in all sorts of unexpected places when I feel the need to expound some... variably cohesive philosophy. Believe me my reader, I am just as challenged by interpretation as you. How should I feel about my thoughts? How should you feel, having not seen what I have? I myself wonder if I can truly believe my own experiences. I write so you may have a chance to correct my inadequacies for me. May you succeed in what I have not.

Let me tell you something about flowers. Have you ever imagined how a flower might grow? The little things are mischievous and hide inside a bulb before opening to reveal a pre-fabricated flower. Blooming is less miracle and more biological sleight-of-hand. As with any trick, the secret is in the preparation. Petals upon petals are layered in a symmetrical orientation - then held together by a central stem, which upon the twist of some magician's hand pops out to surprise. Let's now suppose a flower which had never bloomed.

Such problems of the imagination are just that, problems designed to distract away from genuine satisfaction - a class of metaphorical foils for the banalities of day-to-day pleasure. I myself keep returning to vague theories over the simple and concrete. Closing my eyes I find myself distracted. Try closing your eyes! You'll have forgotten the premise of my writing already. Which is another trick. I never plan on writing anything before my writing is finished and never finish with a valuable premise. You might optimistically assume that the journey itself is meaningful - but no, the only thing meaningfully changing now is the passage of time. Tick tock.

Have you ever thought about what time could be? Few ideas are so labile as our conception of time. The space between words, the number of paragraphs in a chapter, the hours we associate with reading (and those with re-shelving a book - or at the very least those with checking the number of pages remaining.) Who, what, where, when. How, I suppose is a more intrinsic property. Time moves our lives forward, our lives likewise are moving and subject to time's merciless advance. So time's finer print is one of legal essentiality. Time is the entity in question.

Change as an institution is likewise multifaceted. You may have noticed that the previous paragraphs have a certain regularity. I edited that regularity in retrospectively. You likewise noticed the regular size of paragraphs only after finishing a handful. Worst of all, you may have assumed that my writing is regular for the sake of convention. Of course not, I am not a skilful writer. Following conventions would produce consistent *and clear* writing. You'll have hopefully already noticed the lack of clarity.

Yet change isn't apparently evergreen. I am depressed. Each paragraph feels like repetition of the last. Word after word choked up for no apparent thesis.

Petals upon petals upon petals. We can know ourselves by what we aren't.