[Droplets]

The final cocultured image could be interpreted as the consequence of combining two species optima. At the simplest level both *Pa* and *Sa* grow on nutrient-dense patches from their point of inoculum. The random distribution of cells reminds me of 'droplets.' Optimal growth appears approximately circular.

Options:
- One species ignores the partner species. Lends itself well to most analyses of *Sa* growth when *Pa* densities are sufficiently high. Greatest support would be if *Pa* 'cracks' would form in a pattern resembling circles: assuming the *Sa* distribution is highly ordered. Presupposes that *Sa* does not immediately colonize all available space (which it can't - given that space occupied by *Pa* cells becomes dangerous ground.) *Pa* grows circularly at a 1x (100x times less *Pa* than *Sa*) inoculum.
- Species somehow synergize or partially antagonize. Would promote 'fibrillar' growth with a high colony-interface surface area. Not visible in LESB58. PAO1 and PA14 grow in fibrillar colonies in monoculture. Best seen with PA14 at a 10x (10x times less *Pa* than *Sa*) inoculum.
- Non-contact colony interaction. Blips of *Pa* can be found inside established *Sa* structures. Either dormant *Pa* or invasive *Pa* has breached mature *Sa* colonies.

*Pa* 'constellations' appear as though they are filling regions of minimal *Sa* growth. But *Sa* growth must be confluent. The only logical explanation is that *Sa* colony growth physically pushes *Pa* cells into a secondary position (arranged form) prior to the onset of *Pa* outgrowth. I remember seeing a paper supporting *Sa* pushing of *Pa*. The only parameters that matter is the synchrony of *Pa* initiation of growth and the circularity of *Sa* colonies. Reducing *Sa* load could increase the order of *Pa* 'constellation' formation. Single *Sa* colony interference can impact *Pa* arrangement.

A key assumption with such a perspective is *Pa* cannot be killed by *Sa* and *Pa* waits for *Sa* overgrowth prior to initiating invasion.
The alternative is that *Pa* constellations are entirely incidental. The product of successful and unsuccessful *Pa* microcolony formation.

[forest-fire]
