*Electrocompetent cells - Ec*
Stuff you need: 10% glycerol and mqH2O.
1. Regrowing cells: 1:200 dilution of overnight culture in 220mL LB. Grow for 3-3.5h.
2. Initial preparation: Aliquot 50mL into **prechilled** falcon tubes. Keep on ice for 5-10m. Swirl occasionally. Centrifuge at 4000rpm for 20m to pellet.
3. Resuspension: Use 5mL of ice-cold water. Top-up to 50mL with more ice-cold water. Centrifuge at 4000rpm for 10m to pellet.
4. Glycerol wash: Use 5mL of ice-cold **10% glycerol** to resuspend. Combine the contents of all tubes and top-up with **10% glycerol** to 50mL. Centrifuge at 4000rpm for 10m to pellet.
5. Final adjustment: Resuspend pellet in 1mL of 10% glycerol. 1:100 OD measurement. OD should be between 0.3-0.6. Otherwise adjust accordingly. Take into **prechilled** eppendorf tubes.
6. Shock-freeze: Using liquid nitrogen. Store at -80C. 70uL to 100uL aliquots in **prechilled** eppendorf tubes.
** Shock freezing is optional. 100uL aliquots will freeze quickly enough in the -80C freezer regardless.

*Blu extraction*
pSEVA247C has consistently given me fairly poor plasmid yields on extraction. I'm guessing the pSEVA series just doesn't have an exceptional copy number like pUCP22.

*Sa series*
- 5mL quantities which are centrifuged down to a pellet in 15mL falcons. Be wary to use prechilled falcons and microcentrifuge tubes. More culture partially fixes my problem.

*Another mini-collection: Deb's rescreened mutants*
I won't hyperfixate on completing the screen but they're just as relevant as Deb's tn-seq and RNAseq datasets. Find a mutant, tell a story!
- Gene name...

*Next series*
- WT, different strains
- *pqs* and *flg* complements and tn-KO strains
- *Sa* series from library screen
- x7-KO wildcard
- *pqs*-operon series

*Commonly-used reagents*
Figured I'd brainstorm a list of things I'm going to need in enormous quantities. I'll start preparing reagents first thing in the morning, to meet the 2pm deadline.
- LB and LBa.
- Gm50 LB and LBa.
- 50% glycerol.
- Autoclaved mqH2O.
- 50% sucrose (diluted to 15%).

- Cuvettes.
- Petri dishes.
- Cryo-vials.