*Mucin*
Again, 0.05%. From 30.05. I'll try the 'mucinated' media today with PAO1 and PA14.

*More papers...*
- *Pa* and *Sa* coculture does not lead to immediate killing of *Sa* (at least between PA14 and 8235-4). PAO1- and FRD-1-mediated killing is less dramatic. PA14 could kill USA300. *Pa* mucoidy (*algD* tn-insertion) was not associated with *Sa*-killing. PA14 coculture with *Sa* 8325-4 does not change [*Pa* RNA expression substantially but *Sa* upregulated *pflA*, *pflB*, *ldh*, and *adh* more than 10-fold. The genes are associated with fermentation](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4524177/). The end products of ethanol and formate do not accumulate substantially after 16 hour culture. *Pa* preferentially consumed the lactate products over media-originating glucose. *Pa* HQNO kills *Sa* (*pqsA, L* but not *pqsH*.) *pvdA*, *pchE*, and *phzA-G* KO only partially rescue *Sa* killing. *Sa* fermentation depends on 
Not all genes in an operon appear critical for quorum sensing.

*Community structuring*
Fantastic term. Here's an unrelated dialogue.

I've been feeling pretty inspired by Lewontin's GBoEC. My interpretation is of course visual, where species exist in a functional space. A genome can be like a collection of moving things, like a flock of birds perhaps - the genome has a certain agent-based structure. The structure of the genome exists in a functional space. Genes are functional by localization to genes in functional space. The concept is like physic's force of gravity.

Bacteria do not exist in a functional space. The ecological question is one of co-association. We convert plots of occupancy into relative positions by their neighbourhoods. How many red cells can surround a red cell? More would imply strong selection for isogenic neighbours where less would imply a more fluid integration with neogenic neighbours. I'm sure calculating the neighbourhood of hexes would not be challenging. I'd need to only learn hex algebra (only requires base-16 conversion. Pretty straightforward.)

I'm still convinced that heterogeneity and relative occupancy are critical factors for measuring bacterial association. I regret not having an experimental method to seed cells in a specific structure. The best I can do is varying *Sa* and *Pa* ratios as well as inoculum densities (maybe I could try lower *Sa* inoculums.)