*PA14 genes restricting Sa growth*

[PA14 Sa-permissible knockouts]

Obligatory RelA jumpscare.

*Various emails*

**Keith & Rhodri**

I've tried using the inverted fluorescence microscope upstairs but have had inconsistent lighting in my fluorescent images (see attached.) I am trying to visualize the underside of an agar-plate colony of live bacterial cells expressing GFP and FarRed.

I've spoken with Daniel about the inconsistent lighting. He suggested I write to you - Keith - but I've CC'd in Rhodri too.

- Alex from Jaydee's lab briefly showed me how to use the microscope. She said she gets the same 'dark spot' in the centre of her images, but she hasn't tried removing it.

- Daniel suggested that I could have photobleached my cells. I'm sceptical about this suggestion since the location of the 'dark spot' was consistent when I moved my plates around.

- The problem was consistent across all the fluorescence filters and still happened when I changed the light intake (condenser annulus? I think that's what it's called...)

I'd like to either remove the 'dark halo' from my images, or switch microscopes entirely.

The reason I use the inverted fluorescence microscope instead of the confocal is because I need a low-magnification lens. The parameters of the confocal would be fantastic for me (even better than the inverted microscope) but the confocal's lenses have too high a magnification.

Could we try move the 4/10x objective from one of the inverted microscopes onto the confocal, maybe? It'd be ideal for my imaging.

I also coincidentally ran into Rhodri today. He said that we have loose objective lenses from other microscopes. Maybe we could try those too?

*Updates*
- Keith is supportive for the objective switch. He's asked me about checking the 20x confocal  objective first.
- Rhodri is pro-fixing. He'd like us switching light sources (LED to bulb) on the inverted microscope. Also a decent perspective. I'll tackle both simultaneously.

Arranging training with Antonella. I need a preliminary session on Wednesday and samples on Friday.

**Michael**

I've played around with our microscope and have more questions about your experimental process.

I can get clean pictures after around 16-18 hours of incubation (we are only doing end-point imaging right now, since it's been difficult getting access to the fluorescence microscope.)
How long do you normally wait before imaging your plates? Have you tried taking pictures after 2+ days?

We are investigating a slow-growing strain of *Pseudomonas aeruginosa* (LESB58)...

**Rose**

Hope all is well! I've had a chance to use the microbiology inverted microscope but found that its light-source was inconsistently bright. Could we try use the Phenix one last time, this time with the Ibidi slides/Sensoplates? I'll do my best to bring everything possible.

*Updates*
Rose requested the plate's dimensions. Easy enough for the ibidi plates:
- [u-Slide 8 Well high Glass Bottom](https://ibidi.com/img/cms/downloads/in/IN_80807_8well_high_glass.pdf)
- [u-Slide 4 Well Glass Bottom](https://ibidi.com/img/cms/downloads/in/IN_804X7_4well_glass.pdf)
- [u-Slide 2 Well Glass Bottom](https://ibidi.com/img/cms/downloads/in/IN_802X7_2well_glass.pdf)

Trickier for the sensoplates. See links on the [product's webpage](https://shop.gbo.com/en/row/products/bioscience/microplates/sensoplate-glass-bottom-plates/24-well-sensoplate/662892.html). Corresponds with product ID (662892).

*kdpABD*

| Name   | Plate             | Coordinate | Plate position           |
| ------ | ----------------- | ---------- | ------------------------ |
| *kdpA* | PAMr_nr_mas_06_02 | F2         | Rack 1: Column 2, row 14 |
| *kdpB* | PAMr_nr_mas_06_02 | F6         | Rack 1: Column 2, row 14 |
| *kdpD* | PAMR_nr_mas_12_02 | H3         | Rack 1: Column 4, row 12 |
