*Microscopy training sessions*
Wednesday 10-12am: Antonella's initial training. 8th floor.
- Nothing necessary.

Friday ?: sample imaging with Antonella. 8th floor.
- LESB58 culture begins on Tuesday.
- PA14/PAO1 culture begins on Wednesday.

Monday 9am: imaging with Rose. OMNI.
- LESB58 culture on Friday.
- PA14/PAO1 culture on Saturday.

*Deb's data screening*
I have a feeling that rows A and H are over-represented. Probably due to media drying. I'll perform a statistical analysis.

*Reply to Rose*

I'll bring all 3 ibidi sample plates I received and the sensoplate too.
I'll try a bunch of different agar thicknesses and some different fluorescent strains. Hopefully something will work. If not, I'll be able to rest assured that the Phenix won't be usable in my project.

Happy to prepare samples for whenever you'll be available. I only need 48 hours notice to get everything prepared.

*TM15 and 1018*
Thankfully 1018 inhibits PA14 swarming at 1ug/mL on M8. I have two follow-up plans:
- kdp mutant MIC.
- Anaerobic mutant interactions with 1018.

Note that 1018 was located in the -80C in the bottom-right shelf of the top rack/row. Thanks to Sam for showing me!

*Regular inverted screening*
I'm not convinced as to the value of these photographs. I'll take them up to 4 days but my justification for it currently is how long imaging is to capture *Pa* overgrowth of *Sa*. The same can be represented by counting CFUs.
The only reason I'm not counting CFUs already is because I need the thickness of the agar I'll be working with. I'll figure the agar volume/height out after deciding on the appropriate microscope.
I'm heavily leaning towards the microbiology confocal unit though.