*Summary*

No summary this time around, as I don't remember yesterday well.

---

*Swarming re-optimization*
My notes make it sound like I've used [un-modified M8 media](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24818898/) (I would have switched to standard media for RNA-seq experiments - it does make sense...) I've taken a look at some of the parameters I've tried in the past, the best swarming I've gotten does come from un-modified M8.

I've linked downloads of the key plates below, though there's more pictures in the [raw data](https://github.com/marklemzin/marks-masters/tree/main/raw-data) folder saved as .tif files.

*First experimental set*

[Download first-set .tif](https://github.com/marklemzin/marks-masters/raw/main/raw-data/26.3%20swarm%201%20caa%200.5%20agar.tif)

(Incubated for only 16 hours - not 24)

*Second experimental set (Congo red)*

Somewhere on the backup drive, I didn't save these from the plate-reader.

*Third experimental set (different inoculum volume/density*

[Download third-set .tif](https://github.com/marklemzin/marks-masters/raw/main/raw-data/4.5%20var_swarm_od3.tif)

(Bottom right looks like the colonies I used for RNA-seq)

It'd be a good idea to take a look at how much peptoid we have remaining. I recall using 250uL of peptoid per plate, an amount that would correspond to a 100ug/mL stock (given that I used 1ug/mL per plate - God help us all I didn't.) Our stocks are 2mg/5mg. To make 1mL of peptoid I must have added 50uL/20uL to PBS which *does* sound familiar.

*Phenix retraining-rebooking*
I've asked Rose for the working distance of the Phenix objectives. I should be able to get a training session soon enough I hope!

She's sent back the objective specs:
- 5x Air: 12.1mm
- 10x Air: 5.2mm
- 20x Air: 8.28mm

Sounds like the machine is busy until Easter. I won't wait though, as I see no reason that the machine will be less busy after Easter.