*Agar colony biofilm review*
Papers associated with [the Royal Society review](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9748781/#RSOB220194C3).

Merging vs. repulsion of *S. typhimurium*, *P. haloplanktis*, *B. subtilis*, and *E. coli*. 'Sociobiology' has been used to describe inter-bacterial signalling *and* collective behaviour. The authors split the paper based on sections of a growth-curve:
- Lag-phase. More nutrients paradoxically increases the time before equilibria is reached. The equilibrium point is steady colony expansion (rather than accelerating).
- Expansion. Less favourable conditions: lower temperatures and less nutrients decreases the top speed reached by expanding colonies. A 'Fisher-Kolmogorov' equation for expansion of the front is mentioned.
- Fast/slow distribution. The bacterial front is 'fast' at the edge of expanding colonies & more 'fast' colonies exist under nutrient-rich conditions. The logical conclusion is that more 'fast' cells are at the edge of expanding colonies.
- Nutrient thresholds. [Diffusible nutrients can be sucked up by rapidly expanding colonies to create 'dead zones' which prevent further expansion.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2718178/#fig3) Dead zones are more rapidly created inbetween independent expanding colonies. Colonies do not crash into one another.
An unusual thought from this paper, the authors mention flagellar dilution in rapidly dividing cells.
Also, dendritic structures form when a geographic bottleneck prevents access of particles in Brownian motion into an otherwise colonizable location.

Wrinkle formation of *Pantoea agglomerans* and *Bacillus subtilis* is dependent only on *P. agglomerans* EPS and TasA (a cell-membrane component that binds EPS; maintains biofilm rigidity). Buckling is studied as a monomicrobial phenomenon - this is a rare polymicrobial study.
- Polymicrobial conditions induce much more rigorous wrinkling.
- Only relatively closely-related *species* can form co-wrinkling structures. *Pa* differs on a *strain-level* (PAO1 and PA14) as to the intensity of structure formation.
- No inhibition of wrinkling by KO of flagellar genes in *P. agglomerans*.
- Wrinkling becomes more intense with additional *P. agglomerans* - the effect could be due to cells dehydrating rather solely biofilm interactions.
- Wrinkles are occupied primarily by *P. agglomerans*. Cells in wrinkles are highly organized in rows, but not cells deeper in the colony.
- Segregation of bacteria occurs despite initial 'heterogenous' seeding. Something about the random mixing process here disturbs me somehow...
- Cell chains occurring at the biofilm's surface are associated with *B. subtilis* 'chaining' - a biofilm-associated process. *B. subtilis* wrinkling isn't associated with *flgM*.
- Coculture provide Gm stress.
Their conclusions: EPS is shared in polymicrobial biofilms, *B. subtilis* acts a 'protective shield' against stressors for *P. agglomerans* (though it is uncertain if *Pa* reciprocates), and mention, most sagely - that different bacterial morphologies can force different physical interactions. Spherical chains differ from bacillus chains.
- [ *Pa* drives buckling while variable *Bs* morphologies can be provide an easily expandable cover - or something less labile.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6707914/)

*B. subtilis* biofilm formation vertically is consistent with diffusion-limited transport and horizontally by expansion. How do cells in the biofilm's core not starve?
- Wrinkles formed during biofilm development create 100um (diameter) channels. Channels are interconnected in the biofilm's core and connections are more sparse towards the edges. Consistent with cell death promoting biofilm wrinkling.
- [Biofilm channels have a pressure drop within them - allowing capillary movement of water. Attributed to the curvature of channels. Relies on an implied biofilm dryness.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3549102/)
- Evaporative force (measured by drops in temperature with a thermal camera - very clever!) is localized in wrinkles. The higher curvature of water channels can explain this fact (though the authors say it is analogous to the 'coffee-stain' effect occuring when droplets are drying.) The authors state that localized differences in biofilm channel morphologies would also contribute to the pressure drop.
- Wrinkling is retained even in older biofilms (6 days).
Water is 'siphoned' out of the system by evaporation. No such clearing force exists in *in-vivo* infections. Except maybe blood flow?

*E. coli* biofilm structuring contributes to 'aqueduct' formation. ['Aqueducts' are ecologically neutral structures and can facilitate both nutrient and antibiotic uptake](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7490401/#Sec15. Structuring occurs in distinct micro-populations- determined by spatial distribution (fractal organization) and cell-to-cell interactions.
- Channels are 15um wide and lined by cells in a pole-pole arrangement (reminds me of the *Bs* shield on *Pa* colonies.) Channels are not necessarily sealed ('channels and ravines'.)
No emphasis on any selectable traits. More on historical coincidence. Reminds me of aboriginal myth - sometime ago a serpent created this ravine...
- Actual cell arrangement is reminiscent of my current data on coculture-PA14. Diffuse fractals. The biofilm is not entirely glowing green. Strange...
- Dead cell occupy the colony core. Colony edges are occupied by decidedly living cells. No cells occupy the channel core.
- Mechanical disruption of biofilms - especially continuous disruption - is sufficient to kill cells. Pattern regrowth is delayed in disrupted biofilms.
Unusual isogenic experiments. Return to these images later when ready to re-interpret.
- Channels can move larger 'microspheres' (size note stated) and water-soluble nutrients like arabinose.
- Fractal patterns emerge only following a cell-to-cell interactions. **References** given for inter-species interactions. The paper focuses on viable-nonviable interactions.
The key technique - mesoscopy - appears to be available at Otago. I'll ask where such a microscope could be located.
References a computational model called CellModeller. Sounds like a worthwhile channel to pursue.

[*B. subtilis* flagellum is *not* involved in surface colony spread.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3268299/) EPS production is. The premise is obviously a paradox - yet the authors insist that downregulation of flagella is concomitant with biofilm production.
- Flagellar, EPS, and wild-type strains have similar growth curves when shaken in media. Only EPS mutants have reduced horizontal expansion.
- EPS is a water-absorptive substance. The presence of EPS increases physical mass of the biofilm (hence expansion) by attracting water. The mechanism is independent of cellular growth (hence 'dead-zones' may form).
- Swelling is initially vertical in wild-type cells and transitions to a horizontal expansion at a time-point.
- The shape transition is necessary. Consumption is proportional to volume and intake is proportional to surface area. Analogous to the shape of bacterial cells. Hence biofilms must flow.
The authors mention a method for looking at average colony height at a point. I'm unsure exactly how they measured height. Maybe I can adapt their method?

[Agent-based modelling of of the travelling salesman problem:](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X-iSQQgOd1A)
- Iterating through possible outcomes is pretty inefficient. Comes to (n-1)!/2 possible paths for *n* points. Imagine a Cabbage salesman travelling through *n* towns.
- Ant colony optimization is one possible solution. Ants are biased towards travelling towards the nearest town (a kind of Monte Carlo decision-making process) but can be biased by external influences - one example is a positive-reinforcement pheromone.
- Ants travelling across pheromone trails from neighbours become attached to a historical line. Ants can exist in two states: exploring (for food) or returning to the colony (for food). The code uses two distinct pheromone trails. I suspect one is sufficient.
- Slime-mold patterning looks disturbingly like *Pa* biofilms. The simulation focuses on a similar following of neighbouring pheromone trails - in essence focusing on whether an 'agent' should turn left *or* right (*or* neither way at all! - some stochastic movements are also allowed.)
- The best-looking model has agents starting looking inwards from a saturated circular position - essentially my experimental conditions. Maybe I could adapt *Sa* as a relatively static 'obstacle?' I bet I can crack something similar.
- Multispecies antagonistic slime molds form oddly linear shapes. Maybe if *Sa* were also ecologically as 'fluid' (malleable) as *Pa*. Though some simulations - despite essentially being vectors - are forced into circular shapes.
Link to a more [formal paper](https://uwe-repository.worktribe.com/output/980579) on slime-mold dynamics for tomorrow. What defines the vector in such simulations - I wonder?
- I'd be interested if I can use AI to detect where else similar pattern-formation can be found. Algorithms must surely already be extant.
- ... in journals called 'Artificial Life' no less. I'm uncertain where I'll be taken again...

[Pattern-formation is an essential part of both behaviour *and* growth in simple organisms (as opposed to a strictly developmental role). Chemoattraction can generate circular lacunae.](https://otago.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/discovery/search?query=any,contains,Characteristics%20of%20Pattern%20Formation%20and%20Evolution%20in%20Approximations%20of%20Physarum%20Transport%20Networks&tab=all&search_scope=all&vid=64OTAGO_INST:OTAGOUNIVERSITY&offset=0&ref=fromLibWeb)
- Pattern emergence from homogeneity is actually a problem addressed by Turing. His approach was to provide 2 classes of chemical: an autocatalytically (spontaneously) generated 'activator' that produced an inhibitor - a plane and characteristics. *The inhibitor must diffuse faster than the activator.*
- Two types of autocatalytic stimuli: localized (as in bone-deformation providing a room for cells to become resident) and chemotactic (agent-based chemotaxis; as in *Pa* motility.)
- LALI: short-distance attraction and long-range inhibition. Nutrient depletion is an example of long-range inhibition.
- Patterns emerge from the 'bottom-up' (differing from many claims that there are *no* emergent dynamics - see May's Ecological textbook.) Patterns can exhibit a recalcitrance to change not observed in homogenous systems. Likewise for even *more* complicated systems with multiple classes of entity (polymicrobial conditions).
- Slime mold biology: essentially an enormous cell with contractile fibers in the membrane. Cytoplasm can be directed between sites by membrane contraction and loosening. Engulfing food causes the emergence of vein-like protrusions that can transport nutrients to distant extremes of the organism.
Using an heterogenous substrate... could be a way to delineate development *from* homogeneity.

Spatial segregation is the 'the separation of genotypes in space.' Antagonistic interactions are frequently dependent on spatial localization. *B. subtilis* strains are competitive primarily for space (& not *via* a dedicated antagonistic interaction) even when 'founder cells' are distantly deposited from one another.
Colonies can develop independently prior to border formation when cells are not randomly distributed. Difficult - right?
- Lower founder densities vary competitive outcomes more significantly. Ultra-low ratios of *Sa* and *Pa* are essentially like my 'invasion' model.
- Colony placement within the initial inoculum determines post-inoculum expansion. Colonies at the edge of the inoculum have more apparent radial expansion.
- Enclave formation is desirable for weaker species (*Sa*). A lower inoculum density will give *Sa* more time to form enclaves before being limited by *Pa*. The authors use around 10^6 CFU for a 'dense' inoculum and 10^1 CFU for a 'light' inoculum.
[Mutual access to free space promotes survival of uncompetitive strains. 'Spatial drift' favours less-than-neutral mutants.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9122948/) A note for writing: make sure to explain the measures you use from the SPP book. I always wonder why code is rarely provided in papers.

*V. cholerae* biofilms are also able to respond to osmotic stress. The study perceives biofilms as essentially singular organisms. [Colonies have more in common with fluids with an extracellular osmo-protectant than actual membranous organisms.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5569112/)
- Hyperproductive biofilm producers (by mutation of a gene involved c-di-GMP synthesis and the flagellum - to prevent excess motility!) will have an agarose concentration-dependent expansion. Strains producing no biofilm do not.
All results must be assessed in the context of amotile species. A confounder for sure - given we know *flg* mutants have alternative phenotypes.
- Diameter of the innermost region of colony biofilms (core) is not dependent on agarose concentration. The wrinkles of the innermost region are oriented randomly. Wrinkles fade away in the outer 2 regions of the colony. Both regions are dependent on agarose concentration. I am mainly concerned about regions 1 & 2 (innermost - where the inoculum has dried.)
- Horizontal expansion, especially the associated radial protrusions - do not form in biofilm mutants. The authors suggest that residual EPS production is possible to account for the limited expansion in such mutants.
- 'Cheater' biofilm production mutants can be pushed by biofilm-overproducing strains to the edges of expanding colonies.

*B. subtilis* biofilm expansion is limited by iron - a nutrient sequestered away by *Bs*-sourced pulcherriminic acid - analogous to the autocatalytic model of pattern formation (catalysis: cell metabolism, repressor: acid.) [Iron 'dead zones' (surrounding colonies) prevent invasion from isogenic colonies.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6613138/) Another predictor of biofilm expansion besides agarose concentration.
- Colony expansion occurs almost linearly for the first 72h. After that expansion is diminished. Investment is not returned.
- Pulcherriminic acid is coincidentally the only coloured pigment produced by *Bs.*
- Deconvoluting the leading edge is possible by using a minority proportion of GFP-expressing *Pa* alongside the non-fluorescent wild-type strain. 1/5 the GFP, 1/5 the information.
- KO of the corresponding acid transporter is necessary to export pulcherriminic acid. A neat little 'complementation.'
- Iron limitation can be detected by a kit or by genetic proxy. Siderophores are known to be synthesized during iron starvation - promoter linkage to *lacZ* should detect iron starvation.
- Pulcherriminic acid synthesis is widespread at the family level. I could think about using genomic analysis for weird uncharacterized genes.
I wonder if other metabolites can be involved in shaping biofilms? Maybe the signal can similarly originate 'from within' as in the autocatalytic model. Consider pH maybe.
Notes for methods: 'in-situ confocal microscopy' - what a great piece of jargon!

Some tenets to follow:
- Interactions: genes and environment only can produce traits in a mutual context. The relationship with the environment must be considered (example: Birch beetles do not 'eat more' than willow beetles - they specifically eat more birch leaves.) Problems here are of description.
- Flexibility: genes do not encode functions.
- Phenotypic context: even traits exist within a context. Things like 'behavior' occupy an arbitrary space - a space no different to one occupied by morphology (example: can plants count? 20 signals are necessary for a venus fly trap to close, part of a circuit that must occupy a microscopic space.)
*Zombie idea* - something that keeps returning to life - the nature/nurture paradigm. Killing the Zombie requires us to focus on providing a real change to the world, and realizing that nothing is necessarily inevitable. Our genes are not a limitation.
That a particular behaviour occurs consistently across organisms is not necessarily interesting. We may find that inheriting a single head is consequently genetic. Yes, but what is interesting is population-wide variation in such a trait.

*E. coli* agar colonies are cone-shaped. Growth is both vertical and horizontal.
- Cells remain in monolayer on glucose minimal-media and form a secondary layer around 14h. Horizontal expansion is 45.2um/h and vertical expansion is 12.4/um/h.
- Expansionist tendencies can be modified by supplement with alternate carbon sources. Glucose appears ideal for *E. coli* but expansion rates change for other carbon sources.
- [Prominent forces involved in biofilm structuring include: surface tension, cell growth & division, cell-cell interactions, and cell-agar interactions. Other models do exist but I find this a straightforward summary.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6411370/#abstract1)
- Cells directly on top of a colony have much higher velocities than elsewhere. Cells attempt to travel outwards and lose height.
- Vertically (z-axis) shifted cells only emerge as a sub-population quite late into culture. Only the largest colonies have a substantial proportion of vertically-shifted cells. Maybe because further expansion is no longer possible.
- A certain concentric force appears to act almost as a 'belt' to the colony as it expands. Forces do not all push outwards necessarily.
- Agar concentration (when increasing) can reduce the radial expansion of colonies. The vertical speed remains unchanged. Colony height appears to be related to nutrient quality - hence actual cellular growth.
- The forces acting on a colony biofilm can be described as a 'falling domino.' Core cells are simply stood upright, where cells on the periphery are instead preparing to slide horizontally.
Large block of 'Hard Agar' references in 2nd paragraph of the introduction.
The authors define a zone of vertically-oriented cells, of slanted cells, and of planarly-oriented cells.
Bacterial cells are not subject to the same forces as human-sized objects. Gravity does not attach cells to substrate so much as does surface tension.
... the forces applied to microbes are possibly unintuitive. Maybe some of my homebrewed theories will have meaning?

Polymicrobial conditions can lead to the emergence of motility in *Acinetobacter baylyi* (twitching motility) and *E. coli* (strain that is non-motile on soft agar). Emergent patterning was not dependent on predation *via* *A. baylyi* T6SS.
- 10 times the prey species (*E. coli*) was used over the predator. Yet the 'flower' patterning was observed in *E. coli* specifically. [The 'petals' of the flower were formed by former colony fronts that did not continue expanding. Expansion is facilitated primarily by motile *A. baylyi* and *repressed* by accumulation of *E. coli* at 'nodes' - leading to 'venous branching.'](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6959979/)
- *E. coli* survives at the periphery of colonies but not the core, where the authors suggest killing by the *A. baylyi* T6SS.
- The 'veins' of the leaf (former colony perimeters) are occupied by prey *E. coli*. The leaf's 'body' proper is occupied by *A. baylyi*. *Pa* almost (almost!) exhibits a prey-like reticulation early during incubation. *Sa* otherwise exhibits the 'ring-like' restriction of colony expansion around 24h into incubation.
- 'Flowering' can emerge at any inoculum ratio when *A. baylyi* T6SS is knocked-out. The more interesting patterns do occur at a 1:1 ratio on a low-concentration (0.5%) agar though. 'Flowering' is also dependent on *A. baylyi* motility.
- Complex patterning emerges as a response to heterogeneity - despite an initially homogenous system. Moreover - sources of heterogeneity are frequently cells themselves. Reponses to nutrient limitation are essentially stochastic.

*E. coli* secretes alanine at the base of colonies *via alaE* yet mid-level cells instead consume alanine *via dadA* and *dadX*. Crossfeeding can occur even within a single-species biofilm. Metabolic heterogeneity leads to pattern-formation.
- Experimental model uses a defined media (M9), a *fliC* (flagellar mutant), and grows cells an a filter overlay. The goal is to get reproducible colony structures.
- Formate and lactate fermentation is more common in the colony core than elsewhere. *Sa* could die from core starvation. We could use an anaerobic culture conditions to determine this.
- *dadX* converts L-alanine to D-alanine. *dadA* converts D-alanine into pyruvate for use as an energy and carbon source. Alanine is only used by wild-type cells under oxic conditions (I.E. no growth on glucose + alanine in anoxic conditions.)
- [Alanine-secretion mutants have a lower fitness than wild-type strains in isogenic coculture. The authors attribute the difference to alanine toxicity. The opposite case is true for *dadAX* mutants which also have poorer growth in coculture.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8579308/)
A very good reference paper. Dense but experimentally thorough.

Contact-dependent inhibition (systems like the T6SS) have a much greater effect on biofilm composition than long-range toxins (the canonical mode of *Pa* inhibition of *Sa*.) The distance at which inhibitors act reinforces different types of 'genetic segregation.'
- Strains with pore-forming toxins (PFTs) outgrow isogenic strains on the periphery of colony biofilms. Vulnerable 'prey' strains underwent fewer replicative cycles.
- Strain-mixing is minimized between mixed cultures ('predator-prey' systems.) The monomicrobial biofilms have extensive mixing. We'd normally associated one cell surrounding another as malicious behaviour but here it is an indicator of cohabitation.
- The authors postulate two characteristics of toxicity: time-of-contact ('inhibition rate') prior to overgrowth (one species overtakes another by a generation) AND the extent of growth arrest (partial retardation or complete inhibition.) Kind of like the parameters to a growth curve: the lag-time and exponential-phase.
- [Inoculum density can affect bacterial interactions (refs within: 31, 59, 60, 61) *via* bacterial contact. Here, the impact is on inhibitor-strain ('predator') dominance in radial colony expansion.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6839403/)
- The end-point proportion (no. of predator vs. prey at the end-point image - something like a K-capacity) is dependent on an interacting effect between long-distance toxicity and short-distance inhibition.
- Cells not bearing the TA system have a marginally higher growth rate (maybe from partial self-intoxication.) Consequently they are actually more competitive in *establishing* radial fronts. The cost, curiously enough - is *not* dependent on inoculum density. Allelic costs can emerge only under certain conditions.
My technique is called 'epi-fluorescence microscopy.'
A loose thought: there is a 'structural' cost to polymicrobial biofilms to harbouring a destructive phenotype. But just because CDI contributes to 'prey' elimination does not mean it cannot contribute to other interspecies dynamics.

Biological density implies a greater selective pressure to compete. Mutant advantages are dampened by distant scattering of cells (lower inoculum densities.)
- Cells must be located in spatially *appropriate* locations for optimal growth. Biofilm cores are nutritionally poor and cell densities can limit expansion.
- *P. fluorescens* mucoid strains emerge as evolutionarily dominant. The emergent strains appear as dense 'blips' (reminiscent of what I see with *opmD* mutants.) Competitor strains can take up to a week from occurrence to actually form visible structures - it is remarkable that biofilms provide such stable systems for the emergence of dominant strains (overcoming 10-5:1). Stochastic counterselection is always a possibility.
- Mucoid biofilms force cells upwards (& competitors away) towards oxygen. The vertical structures are similar to what I see at colony borders.
- Mucoid strains only dominate in *undisturbed* biofilms. Could continuous disturbance be enough to discourage the emergence of mucoid strains?
- One possible mutation: *rsmE* - a global inhibitor. The net result on cells is a *gain of function*. Either by motility (albeit not flagellar - **which had no observed effect** - the residual motility is called 'sliding motility') or a surfactant promoting surface-level spread.
[Many experimentally-relevant observations: all notes relevant.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4000849/)
Colony biofilms are apparently a classical method for studying the spatial distribution of microorganisms.
Which cell produces the bulk of the biomass in my biofilms?

Some cell lineages can contribute disproportionately in radial expansion. *P. stutzeri* mutants which produce an essential molecule for essentially isogenic strains (a mouthful) tend to occupy the colony periphery. The colony core is occupied by the aforementioned consumers.
- Consumer cells can overwhelm the colony periphery - rarely. Such lineages are essentially 'lucky'. By pure stochastic process they overcome a predefined community optima. The 'lucky' lineages would prefer to be found in the colony's core but are pushed ahead by the colonizing producer lineages. Producer cells have an initial advantage as they have 'first dibs' on nitrogen sources (up until they become toxic.)
- Strong mutualism - as the biofilm is constrained by nitrite toxicity. Strains must cooperate to survive. Growth rates become convergent. Number of sectors is the highest observed (~50).
- 'Competition' - where strains are actually isogenic. The number of sectors is expected to be minimal. Yet sector number hover around ~35. Lineages are distinct.
- Weak mutualism - at pH 7.5 nitrite is less toxic. Strains need not cooperate as much. The number of sectors reduces but to levels below 'competitive' strains - ~10-20.
- [Introducing a pre-established structure into colony biofilms is analogous to restricting radial mixing. Producers still converge at the periphery but consumers have more factors preventing their expansion - so remain in the colony's core. Pre-existing structures limit mutualistic behavior.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7674409/) So spatial bottlenecks can become genetic or biological bottlenecks.
I feel like the experimental model wouldn't measure sector emergence as much as stochasticity. Emergence of lineages under 'competitive' conditions is chaotic - even slight changes in experimental conditions can result in vastly different results. The other two conditions place restrictions on the emergence of lineages.
Biofilms are 'highly constrained systems.' Is this really true? Structuring can occur even late in biofilm establishment.

Cell interactions occurring *via* common goods are subject to variable 'laterality' - unilateral (parasitism) or bilateral (mutualism.) The emergence of unilateral interactions can be dependent on environmental factors: (i) cell diffusion; (ii) good diffusion; (iii) cell density; (iv) good durability.
- The authors argue for public good secretion (siderophores, chelators, biosurfactants, and toxins) as being a common form of mutualism. I agree, it seems like the simplest model. A good is produced and the corresponding environmental receptor happens to also respond to the environmental good.
- The genetic architecture of social traits is extremely complicated. Moreover it *would never exist* outside of particular environmental contexts.
- Durability: beneficial for mutualistic populations since less upfront investment is required in response to stressors. The benefit can be parasitised but only at extremely low cell densities. Failing the assumption that biofilms are 'constrained' (no ecologically null space) systems.
- Diffusion: larger public goods diffuse less, end up close to their source, so are consumed more by producer cells. Parasites prefer diffusible goods. Complete 'monopolization' however is not possible.
- Cell density: higher cell densities permits more cheater access to the public good - so long as the public good remains equally diffusible.
- Cell expansion: does not have to depend strongly on the 'public good' in question. Regular overgrowth dynamics still play a substantial role in strain competition (see-saw economies).
[Cell death was defined as a function of local cell density. Interesting. Relates to the 'buckling' model of structuring.](https://academic.oup.com/jeb/article/27/9/1869/7406685?login=true) Again, biofilms are defined as highly constrained systems.
Only one system is actually being investigated (parasitism) even though two bacterial strains are described.

T6s systems are flawed in their local action. Well-developed microcolonies can outgrow losses from T6S-bearing strains and even outcompete T6S+ bacteria.
- The T6S is likely the tail from a contractile phage. 25% of Gram-Negative bacteria have T6S. What about the other 75%?
- Local killing drives susceptible cells to the periphery of colonies in simulations. Given a high enough replication rate for susceptible cells - the susceptible cells can retake the colony core. Oddly enough, the dynamics remain similar even when depletion of nutrients is considered. Strange.
- 'The minimum sensitive domain radius required for survival ~ inversely depends on the relative sensitive strain growth rate.'
- [The dark portions of images were thought to be accumulates of *Ec.* lysates from repeated killing. I cannot agree, since dark zones appear more frequently as *Pa* becomes less toxic.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4619000/)
- Mutual T6S-dependent competition leads to rapid segregation and sectioning of microcolonies. Perhaps *Sa* has a mechanism of murdering errant *Pa* cells. But I do see some diffuse GFP regardless.
- References provided for *Pa* 'retaliatory' regulation of T6S against other cells (27, 63, 64.)
A massive selective pressure is put on cells, regardless of condition - to grow and expand. The larger population will overgrow the other regardless of T6S presence. See-saw economies.

EPS is a 'public good' and EPS production is a mutualistic behaviour. Cooperation for biofilm production then is an evolutionary paradox. Cells which do not produce biofilms still benefit from EPS from other cells (but presumably are somehow 'adapted' to living in such a biofilm environment.)
- Biofilms formed by *Bs* under higher humidity are larger.
- EPS becomes more costly, at least from a competitive standpoint against an EPS-parasite, when more EPS is produced.
- Biofilms founded by a smaller number of cells in the inoculum will be more 'structured.' I dislike the description. Microcolonies have fewer inter-strain borders. Structure is more complicated.
- Co-operators (EPS-producers) have an advantage when allowed to form substantial microcolonies (low inoculum density). Parasite have an advantage when the inoculum promotes immediate cell-to-cell interaction. Perhaps high-density inoculums can be thought of as a 'macro-assembly.'
- [Colony biofilm structures become more complex when each bacterium contributes to the biofilm matrix. See the last images of the paper!](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4184017/)
1st paragraph has plenty of references on 'pattern-formation.' 3rd paragraph of the discussion too.
Assortative interactions: cooperative cells tend to localize with other cooperative cells. Auto-segregation would be the word I'd use, but this is more elegant.
Micro-sociobiology: the name of my current field. Ridiculous. Flamboyant. I love the term.

*E. coli* biofilms have an oxygen gradient in biofilm transport channels. Oxygen *does not* enter the depths of a biofilm. Dietrich mentions the existence of other 'well-characterized' gradients too (paragraph 2; introduction.) [He argues we can exploit oxygen channels to combat antimicrobial tolerance. Even the smallest molecules do not have free diffusion through channels.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11275768/) Perhaps channels serve another function. Or perhaps metabolic activity is heightened along the walls lining the biofilm channel.
- 3 way about the same problem: culturing cells with OXNANO probes prior to culturing, measurement by insertion of a physical electrochemical probe - where channels had about 3-4 fold higher concentrations of O2, and GFP-proxy constructs (anaerobiosis; *cco2*).
- The core of *Ec.* biofilm colonies is anoxic.
- Apparently the atmospheric opening of channels is 'capped' by cells collapsing into the channel. Dietrich's model has the channel run from the atmosphere to the substrate medium too. Strange, I thought channels ran in parallel to the agar medium (not perpendicularly).
Biofilms are constricting to small molecules too.

QS molecules are another example of a microbial 'public good.' Public goods do not imply mutualism. Parasitism moreso. [*lasI* mutants are example parasites.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5414003/) Monoculture is slower than wild-type growth (when provided with Adenosine as a carbon source, a semi-stressful condition) but coculture is *advantageous* to the *lasI* mutant relative to wild-type cells.
- Addition of agar to media *restricts* (constricts!) the diffusion of the so-called public good (QS particles.) Interesting when comparing with the study above where the restriction of public good diffusion providing for cooperating cells only when *significant microcolonies are allowed to form.*
- Large microcolonies are not equivalent to small microcolonies.
The authors mention 'signal-blind' mutants as a form of parasitism. Weird. I would consider blind mutants to be anything *except* a parasite. Check the first paragraph for references.

Dietrich's work looks at resource allocation within biofilms - the 'predominant' multicellular construct. [He makes an analogy to eukaryotic circulatory systems.](https://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/article?id=10.1371/journal.pbio.3002205#pbio.3002205.s003)
- Dietrich links cell-dependent biofilm structuring (cell chains) to metabolic dead zones forming within biofilms *to* 'slow-breathing' cells that are tolerant of antimicrobial treatments.
- PA14 cells towards the atmospheric surface of colony biofilms are arranged in 'striations'. I see a similar pattern at the edges of my colonies. Dietrich uses an isogenic fluorescent strain at a 2.5% ratio to mark striations. Cells are arranged from pole-to-pole.
- Striations are probably indicative of our PA14 being partially contaminated with wild-type PA14.
- Reduced nutrient availability results in a reduced distinction between striated and unstructured biofilm regions. I suspect the low-nutrient colonies simply needed more time to develop striations.
- Biofilms grown anaerobically do not form striations. The authors elegantly describe this as 'reversing' the gradient. Electron acceptors and nutrients would normally come from opposite sides of the biofilm. Metabolic indicators however peak in activity where there is a balance between Oxygen and nutrients.
- Thicker striations: *pil* and *rpoN*. Perhaps twitching motility serves to separate cells prior to initiating striation structures. Disordered: *gacSA*, *lasR*, *wbpM* (O-antigen biosynthesis). Cells cannot attach to one another - or display a hyper-dispersive phenotype. Clustered: *ssg*, *wapR* (O-antigen synthesis) - some striations. Links the LPS and the O-antigen to formation of striations.
- Note: not all wild-type like mutants for striation formation have normal biofilm formation. *flgK* mutants normally form hyperwrinkled colonies. *rmcA* should spread rapidly and *pel* should form smooth colonies.
- Wild-type colony biofilms here have a 'cloudy' appearance. My biofilms look similar to Dietrich's *pilA* mutants - 'spiky'.
- LPS O-antigen synthesis (or even pilus glycosylation) & pilus activity are not redundant to striation ('tendril') formation. Loss of pili in a O-antigen-absent background actually restores the striated pattern.
- Rhamnose-inducible reporter strains only seem to respond to rhamnose at the surface of colonies. 
- Fluorescent microsphere (200um diameter) diffusion is a proxy for biofilm packing. Highly-packed biofilms do not have a homogenous microsphere distribution - signal is lacking at the biofilm-air interface.
- Isogenic-esque mixing: *wbpM pilA* dKO (O-antigen biosynthesis/pilus) - long borders between cells. Substantially weaker for WT, *pilA*, and *wbpM* single mutants.
- Biofilms with more compact structure (*wbpM*) had increased rates of cellular death. Measured by PI staining. Similarly - more compact biofilms had a greater proportion of metabolic activity sequestered to the air-biofilm interface. Strange, considering that nutrient diffusion is impeded **AND** the previous suggestion that metabolic activity occurs at the optimum between atmosphere and media.
- Killing by tobramycin (indicated by PI activity) coincides with regions of optimal metabolic activity (a hypothetical optimum between atmospheric perfusion and nutrient diffusion). I guess the idea feeds into the increased surface area from colony striations. Antibiotics shouldn't so readily diffuse through colony biofilms though.
The paper has a good technique for dye incorporation. Colonies are first grown on regular media then transferred over to media containing metabolic dyes.
He mentions some known adaptations of the biofilm 'microanatomy'. See refs (28-31). See Dietrich's other relevant colony biofilm work at refs (12, 56-60).

*P. aeruginosa* PA14 biofilms. [Phenazines alter the metabolism of *Pa* cells, increasing their tolerance to ciprofloxacin.](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6377615/#Sec8)
- PCA and PCN are the two phenazine species in question. Typically involved in redox reactions. Known to be primarily reduced when in the deeper anoxic core of the biofilm (cells respire phenazines.) Phenazines can upregulate efflux pumps.
- *phz*-KO mutants produce colonies less tolerant to ciprofloxacin, carbenicillin, and tobramycin (3 separate classes!) but more tolerant to colistin.
- *phz* does not increase cipro tolerance *via* *mex* or *pel*.
- Under conditions where tryptone was the major carbon source, *Pa* had more metabolic activity at the air-biofilm interface (or maybe more phenazine production.) Glucose-rich media allowed for phenazine reduction everywhere.
- *phz* mutants have metabolic peaks in different locations within the biofilm (deeper by about 30um), likely from anaerobic forms of metabolism.
- The transition is from *phz*-dependent *cco* (a terminal oxidase) to *phz*-independent pyruvate fermentation. The implication being that *less* efficient forms of metabolism reduce tolerance to ciprofloxacin (as opposed to the usual 'slow-breathing' hypothesis.)
CFU survival per biofilm could be calculated (relatively easily) using the included protocol for measuring tolerance. Colonies are grown on a mesh topped-off with a thin agar layer, 3 days here, then transferred *via* lifting the mesh onto an antibiotic-rich plate. Colonies are lifted from biofilms using a tissue homogenizer.

**Right place, right time, right amount**
I've noticed parallels between developmental genetics and biofilm structural analyses.
- Cells interact with one another differently proportional to the distance between cells. The interactions a cell may have with its neighbour can be completely unpredictable but the biofilm as a whole forms very consistent patterns.

Loose tools:
- BiofilmQ. Will be useful for confocal images of my colonies.