*To do:*
- Combine Deb's PA14/PAO1 data
- Process Deb's USA300 data
- Extract GFP-bearing plasmid
- 5 papers a day!

*[Reading Daniel's chapter](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-08491-1_15#Abs1)*

[On glass slides, *Pa* readily overgrows *Sa* but some low levels of *Sa* cocci can be seen](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0928493116325371?via%3Dihub). *Sa* was purported to have adhesins specific to glass and a higher tolerance to anaerobic conditions than *Pa*.

Cells cocultured extensively form primary biofilms at the air-liquid interface. PA14 does not form a more substantial biofilm when *Sa* is added. Different media potentiates can improve *Sa* aggregation.
- BSA, AMP (adenosine monophosphate), and L-arg disrupt *Pa* toxicity. Improve homogeneity.
- BSA can also influence *Sa* fitness.
- NADPH balances redox stress.
*Sa* forms a continuous layer over *Pa* in flow cultures. [The addition of BSA strongly drives *Sa* growth - so much so that *Sa* forms the greater proportion of such biofilms](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-52726-0). Cells are separated into smaller 60-150 cell microcolonies within monomicrobial enclaves.
The hypoxic peak (determined by an anaerobically-activated dye - we could try an anaerobic promoter fused with fluorescent protein) co-occurs at the same depth as the Sa-Pa liminality.

[Experimental models mimicking infected dermal and fatty tissue have been used to measure heterogeneity](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wrr.12944). 2 days into culture *Sa* and *Pa* can coexist at all levels of the stratified agar construct. After 5 days *Pa* growth becomes favoured deeper into the construct.

A general trend is that media conditions are not always permissible for extended *Pa* and *Sa* coculture. [Some studies manage to coculture *Sa* and *Pa* for 72 hours from an equal initial inoculum](https://karger.com/mpp/article/28/1/28/204453/Influence-of-Laboratory-Culture-Media-on-in-vitro). Bacterial viability is difficult to verify from microscopy alone. Metabolic flux is increased in cocultured cells - though the species responsible for the increased flux hasn't been determined.

*Retrospective*
Oxygenation (and the paired de-oxygenation) is an example of predator/prey interactions. One species aggressively depletes a non-essential commodity.

*A note on pUCP22 construction*
The cut sites I'll use for the restriction digest are HindIII and EcoRI.

*Continuation - Saturday*

The transition from *Sa*- to *Pa*-dominance during wound colonization involves motility and chemotaxis. *Sa* colonies behave like 'rafts' which *Pa* cells bind and subsequently burrow into over a period of 8 hours. By the end of culture, *Sa* microcolonies are dismantled. [*Pa pilG, pilA* and *flgK* are necessary for directed motility](https://elifesciences.org/articles/47365#fig2). *Sa* Agr-regulated secreted factors function as an exotic signal for *Pa* - they greatly stimulate motility. In the absence of *agr*, *Pa* cells avoid *Sa* altogether. The behaviour is conserved in clinical *Sa* and *Pa* isolates and even in other CF-causing pathogens (*B. cepacia*) and non-CF organisms (*E. coli*, *B. subtilis*, *S.* Typhimurium).
- *agr* - accessory gene regulator. *Sa* quorum sensing.
- The flagellum could drive the bacterium but steering occurs by the *pil* operon.

[2017 review for future reference](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/cellular-and-infection-microbiology/articles/10.3389/fcimb.2017.00106/full)

Conflicting evidence exists for the physical properties of mixed-species biofilms. [Proteases (specifically *lasB* and proteases regulated by *rhlR*) in PAO1, PA14, and *S. epidermidis* supernatants possess antibiofilm activity against *Sa* and other unknown factors even decrease *Sa* growth](https://academic.oup.com/femsle/article/335/1/31/512789?login=true). The mechanism is uncertain but treatment with supernatant also causes increases *Sa* protease expression.
- What kind of economic interaction causes symmetrical gene upregulation - other than a stress?

Clinical strains of CF *Pa* frequently posses a 'mucoid' phenotype with recalcitrance to treatments and worse prognosis. The basis is overproduction of alginate (normally by mutation of the anti-sigma factor *mucA*.) [Mucoid strains of *Pa* have reduced siderophore, HQNO, and rhamnolipid production attributed to alginate overproduction and *Pa* segregation from *Sa* cells](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/mbio.00186-17). Specifically the pyoverdine (*pvdA*), rhamnolipids (*rhlA*), and HQNO (*pqs*, albeit less-so) genes were downregulated.
- *Pa* phenotypes and *Sa* phenotypes have long been associated with different clinical infections.
- References 7-16 for antistaphylococcals.
- Complementation of *mucA* mutants with secreted toxins.

A similar but not identical study looked at the influence of exogenously-derived alginate on shaking *Pa*. Similar results were derived for the influence on *pqs*, *pch*, and *pvd* operons. Some additional hits included upregulation of anaerobic reductases (*norC*, *narG*, *nirS*). The permissivity of *Pa* knockouts to *Sa* coculture was validated for *fliC*, the *mot* operon, and *flgK*. The transcriptome between artificially-generated mucoid strains (*mucA*-KO) and clinical mucoid strains (CFBBR32) is different. Differences are found in the expression patterns of [*pqs*, *pch*, and *phz* operons](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/jb.00559-19).

Although emphasis has been historically put on the better-studied *Pa* there are emerging studies for *Sa*'s contributions too. CF *Pa* isolates can have their biofilm-producing capacity both inhibited and promoted by *Sa* supernatant. The reduction is attributed to a reduction in *Pa* attachment to abiotic surfaces. An *Sa* adhesin called *spA* can bind the Psl EPS (but not Pel) and *pilA* (but not *fliC*). *spA* has functions beyond abiotic surfaces. [The protein can 'cap' immune-system IgG to prevent phagocytosis of antibody-bound *Pa*](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/mbio.00538-16).

*Experimental thoughts*
- A 'carrier species' of a bacterium like *E. coli* without major interactions with *Pa* carrying a gene critical for *Pa*-*Sa* interactions. Measures exact gene localization.
- Evolutionary studies for *Pa*-*Sa* interactions. How would I stimulate a particular economic mode?

*Keith's email*
Note: the confocal is called the IX83.

We (Antonella, me) tried looking at my samples today with the x20 on the confocal. I couldn't get any picture beyond a distant fluorescent haze. My guess is that the objective lens didn't have the working distance to punch through my plate/agar - even at the thinnest agar thickness I could manage.

Some solutions:
- Antonella suggested lowering the sample holder towards the objective lens but we couldn't find any obvious mechanisms.

- Antonella also suggested seeing if the humidity chamber insert (I'm not sure what it actually is - a small box with a screw-on acrylic lid and a short hose) could bring my plate closer towards the objective. We couldn't figure out how the chamber attaches into the microscope though.
- Apparently some guy called Roman was doing live imaging of cell infections some years ago, we reasoned he might have used a similar chamber - do you know if he used an alternative slide/plate holder?

- I reckon we could find a low-magnification lens that has a greater working distance than the 20x. [I took a look online](https://bcf.technion.ac.il/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/ima-Olympus-inverted-IX83.pdf) (see pg. 17) at the specifications for our lens, it looks like the UPLSAPO has a WD of only 0.6mm. Not a huge surprise we couldn't see anything. Maybe we have one of the 4x lenses listed lying around somewhere? Rhodri seemed to think we have some loose objectives.

*Reminders for Daniel*
Daniel wants me to extract the plasmid from *E. coli* using the thermofisher kit. I'll attempt this during the weekend.

I need two things from Daniel:
- Confirmation of strain numbers. I need *E. coli* carrying GFP in pUC22. I found #207, #266, #319 (from #266). Daniel will confirm the most appropriate strain.
- *Sa* USA300 transposon library. Daniel beat me to it lol.