*Notes from Daniel*
- Peptide. Viral and exotoxins.
- Heptamutant. Usp. In PA14. All clear!
- Check with 'You' for glutamic acid.

*Supervitality: Pa as the treatment to Sa*
Daniel let down his guard today, so I have a found a good way to weave ecology into my thesis. He has the practicality of a older professor. I can write about parallelism, sequentialism, and non-binary mutant categories so long as I spin the idea experimentally *or* clinically. The clinical component comes from my introduction. The experimental component is crucial *right now*.

A dichotomy of functions exists between positively-related functions (parallelism) and negatively-related functions (sequentialism). The dichotomy is not a necessity.
- Functions which both bacteria provide are considered 'parallel.' At the very least the functions are redundant but can subtly differ enough to provide synergistic effects. Selection is primarily at the polymicrobial level. Optimal microbial assemblies are necessarily polymicrobial.
- Functions which only one bacteria provides are considered 'sequential.' The function can promote monomicrobial vitality or provide a synergistic effect to other bacterial species. Functionality differs in different conditions. Selection is at the genic level. Polymicrobial settings are selected simultaneously at every genetic level.
Imagine parallelism's selection as a Poisson distribution - a distribution skewed towards polymicrobial assemblies. Sequentialism's selection is a uniform distribution.
What is the selective pressure I am talking about? I think about antibiotics or the immune system. Anything killing cells. I only account for selection internal to the polymicrobial system.

We can extrapolate out into unilateral/bilateral functionalities. Exoticism and redundancy are necessarily opposing forces. So are unilateral and bilateral associations. There are 4 obvious possibilities in 2 linked pairings.
- Cooperation (exotic + bilateral) - Predator/prey (redundant + unilateral)
- Parasitism (exotic + unilateral) - Competition (redundant + bilateral)
Does not delineate exoticism's relationship with laterality. Experimentally useless.

- Parasitism (unilateral) - Predatory/prey (unilateral)
- Cooperation (bilateral)- Competition (bilateral)
Shows differences between exotic/redundant systems. A gene which retains unilateral functionality but differs in redundancy/exoticism will be primarily supporting the argument for redundancy. Same for bilateral functionality. Exotic functions with significant effects on partner species are anomalies.

Best to think of the dichotomies as travelling across the 'political spectrum.' Straight left/right, up/down, and also diagonally.

Question is what genes are needed to be knocked-out in *Pa* to promote overgrowth or synthetic mutations in *Pa* and *Sa*. Synthetic mutations can be functionally redundant *or* only similar in phenotype.

I'll assume a relationship between heterogeneity and overgrowth.