*More reading... again!*
Monomicrobial analyses of *Pa* biofilms find that *pel* is the phenotypic biofilm constituent. *pel* improves bacterial adhesion to abiotic surfaces, and can increase total biomass (though the effect is specific to PA14 - PAO1 requires *psl* instead.) Increased *pel* expression increases the size of cellular aggregates - microcolonies. Cells would either dissipate from the mother cell (termed 'flyers') or would aggregate (termed 'builders.') [PA14 *pel* mutants tend to exhibit 'flyer' behaviour. The equivalent trend occurs in PAO1 *psl* mutants.](https://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/article?id=10.1371/journal.ppat.1001264)
- Related to aminoglycoside antibiotic resistance.
- Migratory tendency is an interesting antithetical measurement to the logistical hypothesis of colony surface-area.

Alginate has a less-well characterized role in *Pa* biofilm biology. [Alginate producing (and overproducing) strains such as PA14, PAO1, and mucA* mutants are protected from IFN-y dependent phagocytosis](https://journals.aai.org/jimmunol/article/175/11/7512/36931/The-Exopolysaccharide-Alginate-Protects).

From [Role of polysaccharides in _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ biofilm development](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136952740700135X?via%3Dihub#bib16).
Molecules follow a distinct succession in establishing *Pa* biofilms. Alginate overproduction arise following mutation in *mucA* and frequently become the dominant CF pathogen. Alginate protects from phagocytic clearance and immune-generated ROS. The differences between alginate-KO strains and wild-type strains appear minimal. Increases in biofilm antibiotic resistance and immune resistance are associated primarily with alginate-overproduction strains.
Two alternative polysaccharide-producing operons exist. *psl* is essential for biofilm formation in PAO1. The phenotypic consequences of *pel* loss include: less cell-surface and cell-cell interactions, biotic adherence (CF lung: mucin and airway epithelial cells), and biofilm structure maintenance. ***psl* is not uniformly expressed within biofilms.**
*pel* is the 'pellicle-forming' counterpart of *psl* in PA14. *pel* lacks a role in biofilm attachment (early)
but seems critical for maintaining biofilm morphology. The type-4 pilus is critical for biofilm initiation.
Regulation of *psl* and *pel* remains an open question, but some commonly-isolated phenotypes have been associated with hyper-aggregative phenotypes. One example gene is the methylator *wspF* which normally antagonizes *wspR* activity by demethylating *wspA*. The *wsp* chemosensory circuit is involved in producing the regulator c-di-GMP.
The GacS/GacA/*rsmZ* circuit also controls biofilm formation. Knockout of the associated *retS* permits regular activity of the GacSA circuit. The downstream pathway promoted both *pel* and *psl* production.

*Reflections*
- I like prioritizing citations with '\*'. The referencing system seems common in review articles in particular.

- I also like references pertaining to biological context. Experimentally-used 'mucin' and 'airway epithelial cells' may mean little outside of a biological context - the CF lung.

- Daniel will know where to locate clinical data demonstrating *Sa* and *Pa* coinfections. Maybe he'll suggest a method for creating the 'coinfection' paper graph (Pseudomonas & Staph-specific vs. polymicrobial biofilms.)

'Allee effects' - the fitness of an bacterial cell decreases as the population size increases. Maybe confluent growth of *Sa* provide weaknesses for *Pa* colonization.


*Presentation. From Zoology.*

Charming little publications/vs/time graph.

Parasites can induce behaviours in hosts. For example - helminths cause water-seeking behaviour in hosts. I wonder if either *Pa* or *Sa* can enforce behaviours in the partner species?

CIELAB colour space. I found the concept intriguing. Why shouldn't I move beyond hexcode?
- Sam mentioned that Mihnea Bostina's Daniel might be helpful... (but I'd like to avoid AI.)

*Various thoughts of varying lucidity*
[night-leaves]
I've noticed before how the leaves of a tree move synchronously with the shaking of the tree-branch. I had never noticed before how regions of darkness imply many overlaid leaves. The flickering of light through a tree has a certain pattern - some spots must certainly be darker.