*Reading, reading, reading*

Long-term retrospective studies of microbial association with infections also exist. Patients are necessarily producing sputum which can be cultured to identify infecting pathogens. [Methicillin-sensitive *Sa* does not predict *Pa* infection](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/jcm.00354-18. Likewise *Pa* infection appears to protect against *B. cepacia*, *A. xylosoxidans*, and *S. maltophila* (these species also protect against *Pa* infection.) *Pa* potentiates colonization with *Aspergillus*. MRSA and *Pa* do not co-occur. The least pathogenic species during infection tended to have the lowest impact on the CF microbiota (*S. maltophila*).
- Clinical succession. MSSA frequently infects paediatric patients where the partner species *Pa* infects patients as they age. Inappropriate treatment may remove one comparatively less-impactful infection and make room for *Pa* or *Sa*.
- Although Cystic Fibrosis is typically delineated based on aetiology it is also important to note that different organisms can produce vastly different pathologies. *Pa* and *Sa* frequently co-infect the same patient, but do not cause a necessarily *Pa*- or even *Sa*-styled infection. It'd be neat to look at labelled histological sections.
- Community associations are rarely 'more than the sum of their parts' - at least in an evolutionary context. Community-level synchrony of two (or more) species is not more than the coincidental fluctuations of single cells doing the best possible under the environmental circumstances.

Polymicrobial biofilms have altered antibiotic susceptibilities. PA14 produces a non-heat-sensitive particle besides HQNO, pyocyanin and HCN that can increase *Sa* killing by tobramycin. *rhl* disrupts the cell membrane of other species and allows (in this case) for drugs like tobramycin to enter cells. HQNO inhibits respiration of *Sa* strains. The 'slow-breathing' cells are tolerant to drugs like ciprofloxacin. *lasA* synergizes with the cell-wall-targeting antibiotic vancomycin as *lasA* can degrade *Sa* PPG bridges.
- 'Same spatial niche'. *Pa* isolated from polymicrobial biofilms is more tolerant of *Sa*.
- HQNO collapses the proton-motive force. Tobramycin uptake is mainly PMF-dependent.
- [A paradox. Adding HQNO disrupts the PMF-dependent uptake pathway for some drugs AND drives cells into a lowered-energy state yet *Pa* supernatant holistically does in fact potentiate *Sa* killing](https://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/article?id=10.1371/journal.pbio.2003981)

Clinical isolates can combat each other or display tolerance phenotypes. Singular genes are responsible at the level of transcriptomics. [Competing strains expressed genes involved in genetic information processing and had dysregulated metabolisms. Acetyl coenzyme A (*acs*) was downregulated. Energy metabolism was upregulated in genes like *ldhA*, *ald1*, *gluD*, *rocA*, *odhA*, *adhE*, and *lctP*. The enzymes listed are implicated in feeding the Krebs cycle. Co-operating strains have an altered transcriptomic signature. Virulence was upregulated with genes such as alpha-haemolysin (*hla*), staphylokinase (*sak*), aureolysin (*aur*), IG-binding protein (*sbi*), and complement inhibitor genes (*scn*). *saeRS* was upregulated and had been implicated in virulence regulation before. Metabolism was generally downregulated - maybe with impacts on *de-novo* nucleotide synthesis important for DNA repair. Polyamine (regulators of virulence), methionine, iron (starvation), and some antibiotic efflux pumps were all upregulated](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-52975-z).
- Remainder of the paper describes an example regulatory pathway: from *mgrA* to the *nor* efflux pump. *Pa* specifically upregulates the pathway (and not *B. cenocepacia* or *S. maltophila*.) The net result is *Pa*-dependent resistance of *Sa* against tetracycline and an increase of *Pa*-dependent *Sa* internalization into epithelial cells (not necessarily *via* tet38.)
- Transwell experiments are super cool! *Pa* and *Sa* necessarily interact by diffusible particles. Maybe we could embed *Pa* into agar to create background 'signals' for *Sa*.

*Deb's data continued: USA300*
Processed and processed. Localization differs - *Pa* does not grow comparatively better in the plate-border wells (I.E. A12, H1).

[uspao1-green]

[uspao1-red]

[uspa14-green]

[uspa14-red]

Overlap analysis. Looks like Deb used +/- 1.5 standard deviations so I should have a smaller transposon pool. Annotation comparison should use the latest annotations online.

Deb's rescreens:
- PA4994 and PA14_71780 loss led to reduced PAO1 and PA14 growth. Unclear whether the effect is specific to coculture.
- Mutants in SAUSA300_2324, *fruA*, *epiE*, *epiF*, *moaE*, or SAUSA300_1353 could survive coculture with both *Pa* strains. I'm uncertain whether the claim is correct though...

From what I understood she rescreened all the initial mutants (lots!) that could confer a growth-advantage/disadvantage. I'm uncertain how the initial pool was determined. The mutants that continued to express the phenotype were presented. Every gene presented in Deb's rescreen table corresponds to a gene in the initial screen. I cut the screen into pieces where Deb experimentally verified mutants. No wonder our lists look so different.

Funniest thing is the genes that overlap between our assays all improve *Pa* growth relative to *Sa*. Makes sense given that *Sa* would have had an intrinsic advantage during the initial screening.

For RMG:
- *metX*, *flgF*, *ilvC*, *tle1*, *lbcA*, *thiC*, and PA1821 mutants (PAO1) all improved *Sa* survival.
- *dadA* and *hisZ* mutants (PA14) both improved *Sa* survival.
- Loss of the *rhl* operon improved *Sa* growth in PA14 and PAO1.