*Top priority*
- **Monomicrobial microscopy. Wt. vs GFP/FarRed-laden *Pa* and *Sa*. Daniel needs to confirm that we are visualizing *Sa*.**
- Confirm plasmid presence in *Ec* with fluorescence microscopy (or geldoc or transilluminator + orange filter.)
- Check plasmid map with Prasanga using VectorNTI.
- Quartzy. Catalogue number and website link for Ibidi plates for Daniel.
- MIC of TM15 in M8 versus untreated and 1018 controls.

*Low priority (up until next weekend)*
- Check how we can determine OMNI hour usage with Rose.
- Alphafold predictions of Deb's genes.
- [Lancet WHO review of ESKAPE pathogen mortality](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(22)02185-7/fulltext) has info on [NZ-specific *Pa* and *Sa* mortalities](https://www.thelancet.com/cms/10.1016/S0140-6736(22)02185-7/attachment/f75a6a1f-2ace-4020-b456-a07ca78096a6/mmc2.pdf).
- Growth-curve modelling.
- Mutant transformation with extracted pUCP22.

*Future sight*
- I'll be taking care of a Pasifika student as part of the Winter exchange programme. Daniel wanted to focus on *Pa* and *Sa*. I'll be showing the student how to perform MICs I guess?

*Transformation*
From Maddie's thesis.
- Scrape mutants from a plate and resuspend in 10% sucrose.
- Wash with 10% sucrose 3 times.
- OD1 culture in 10% sucrose 100uL.
- 1ug DNA added.
- Electroporation at 2500V.
- Cell recovered in dYT (1mL), by adding media into electroporation cuvette, and allowed to incubate shaking for 1h (PAO1).
- Resuspend again to 100uL.
- Recovered cells plated for single colonies on Gm50 LBa.

Confirm with geldoc or orange filter.

Ask Janaya for help.

*More readings*

[Clinical strains of *Sa* exposed to *Pa* can become phenotypic small-colony variants (SCV)](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/aem.01211-09). *Pa* pyocyanin can select for SCVs that survive coculture by mutating *hemB*. Pyocyanin acts as an ETC inhibitor. Some similar compounds include HQNO and HCN.
- *S. carnosus* (meat fermentation) has a pyocyanin- and cyanide-resistant cytochrome *bd* quinol oxidase so is insensitive to the toxin pyocyanin.
- *Pa* and *Sa* make thicker monomicrobial biofilms in this paper.

Even within a monomicrobial biofilm there can be some phenotypic diversity. *hemB* (haem) and *menE* (menaquinone) mutants in *Sa* are both aminoglycoside-resistant SCVs. [Coculture of *hemB* and *menE* mutants can restore growth deficiencies. The two strains can trade exotic services like haem](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1931312814003357?via%3Dihub). Coculture increased activation of the *agr* system (protein secretion, extracellular proteases, and alpha-haemolysin) that caused increases in cytotoxicity. Murine coinfection supports subpopulations of both *menE* and *hemB* mutants and increases bone destruction.
- Extracellular protease secretion is associated with biofilm dissipation. Coculture paradoxically increases biofilm formation early during coculture but decreases formation later on.
- Ablation of slow-growth phenotypes also occurs with patient-derived bacteria.
- Selective pressure for emergence of one SCV class can provide cross-resistance against another pressure. For example Gentamicin and Pyocyanin.
- *E. faecalis* can even exchange menaquinone with *S. aureus*.

A review:
[The quality of *Sa* infections has evolved with changing clinical practices. *Sa* strains have managed to become resistant to essentially all introduced antibiotics.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567134808001779?via%3Dihub)
- Historically *Sa* infection rates have increased.
- *Sa* carriage occurs in sites with keratinized squamous epithelium (anterior nares). Bacterial factors (toxins and adhesins), environmental factors (hospitalization), and host immune status appear important. Infections with *Sa* tend to occur with the endogenous strain. Hence *Sa* is an 'opportunistic' pathogen.
- *Sa* is not generally considered promiscuous. Lineages are frequently homogenous. Clinical isolates of *Sa* (be they MSSA or MRSA) fall into 5 clonal complexes. Lineage 2 and 3 are especially commonly found being carried on humans.
- More significant is the transfer of individual genes. Lineages have convergently acquired the *mecA* regulon by HGT.
- Animals can harbour *Sa*. Some differences exist with human-adapted strains but certain genes can only be found in animal-adapted strains - suggesting host-specific evolution.
- 'Essentially any *Sa* genotype carried by humans and animals can transform into a life-threatening human pathogen but ... certain clones are more virulent than others.' - maybe *Pa* is such a transformative factor.
- Colonisation factors: *clfB*, *sasG*, wall teichoic acid (WTA)
- Genotypes of some *Sa* clones may either be intrinsically more virulent or otherwise all be virulent. The distinction hinges on whether colonization factors are sufficient for infection.
- Invasion triggers: nutrient statuses.
- Adhesins (MSCRAMMs): *sdrCDE* (serine-tandem repeat adhesins.)
- Toxins: TSS1, *egc* (enterotoxins, essentially superantigens), PVL (soft tissue: I.E. arthritis and abscesses), CHIPS, staphylokinase. Roles are challenging to determine as there is little data on the presence of the gene in *Sa* from healthy people.
- Worth noting that many toxins are horizontally acquired (phage, PAIs, plasmids) sometime before or during invasive disease. Coevolution with *Pa* could occur in massive jumps.
- 'Bacterial interference.'  MSSA has been used to prevent outbreaks of virulent *Sa* by occupying the same niche. The practice is regaining interest. *Sa* produces compounds that affects other species [(1)](https://www.science.org/doi/full/10.1126/science.276.5321.2027?casa_token=fyym1MXcPuMAAAAA%3AiIv2TaDi34hUnLJvw87x2Rf5tG-iPN_GjYRFhOclkWQqo0T0pmx6os9lSz6lKzCe7tHGB0xoh5h_LQ) [(2)](https://journals.asm.org/doi/full/10.1128/jb.00317-06). *Sa* notably inhibits other gram positive bacteria (*S. pneumoniae*) and shifts are observed post-vaccination.
- Carriage factors are variable. The connection between bacterium and host appears strict. Most comedic is [nose-picking](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/infection-control-and-hospital-epidemiology/article/abs/nose-picking-and-nasal-carriage-of-staphylococcus-aureus/DC21FFA771693C772308530D2B1A1452). Diabetes mellitus, recent eczema, age, and gender appear important. Active smoking appears somehow protective. Immunocompromised patients are more readily colonized.
- A humanized bacterium. A human affinity.

*Future presentations*
- 'Image series.' Will be a really useful method of demonstrating rationale. What was the point of an experiment?

*Notes from Maddie's thesis*
- She has phenotypic notes for all strains used. I like the additional commentary - it's a great way to write more human-readable protocols.