*Transformations*
All as planned. I've kept -80C stocks of the original mutants too.

*Reading 2: electric boogaloo*

[*Pa* and *Sa* infections have some of the highest mortality rates among bacteria in NZ in 2019.](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(22)02185-7/fulltext)

| Organism        | Death counts in 2019 | Death rate per 100 000 in 2019 |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| *S. aureus*     | 843 (580 - 1,202)    | 10.4 (7.0 - 15.0)              |
| *E. coli*       | 498 (342 - 707)      | 6.0 (4.1 - 8.6)                |
| *P. aeruginosa* | 308 (210 - 436)      | 3.8 (2.5 - 5.4)                |

[MRSA and carbapenem-resistant *Pa* are both high-priority pathogens on WHO's antibiotic-resistance 'most wanted' list.](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240093461)
- An estimated 4.95 million deaths in 2019 due to AMR. Disproportionate occurrence in low-middle income nations and communities. *Pa* and *Sa* were added due to specifically impacting the health sector. Other species were included for HGT propensity, infectious burden in low-middle income nations, or unusual epidemiology (*N. gonorrhoea*.)
- The list exists as a guide for pharmaceutical development and distribution.
- Prioritization: mortality (>30%), incidence, non-fatal economic burden, resistance trends (over time), transmissibility (One Health), preventability (healthcare and community settings), treatability, and antibacterial pipeline (no drugs available soon). Most critical for *Sa* and *Pa* is that they are 'uniquely difficult to prevent.'
- Both CRPA and MRSA were also on the 2017 priority list. *Pa* has been downshifted from critical in response to reduced AMR reported in certain regions (but remains of a high priority due to the threat to immunocompromised individuals and healthcare settings.) MRSA is prevalent in high-income countries.
- *Pa* requires novel treatments and investment into hospital-based infection prevention.
- R&D should focus on treatments counteracting resistance mechanisms or on alleviating disease symptoms. Funding for antimicrobials has been unable to meet the ideal amounts for all pathogens.

*Pa* is unmonitored in New Zealand. Almost paradoxical given the importance of the pathogen at a global scale. The WHO list has alternative grass-root-level interpretations.
