*[Colabfold](https://colab.research.google.com/github/sokrypton/ColabFold/blob/main/AlphaFold2.ipynb)*

- query_sequences: protein sequence from *pseudomonas.com*
- jobname: Gene name
- num_relax: kills steric clashes introduced bioinformatically (for best structure only)
- template_mode: only useful for proteins with known structures
 
Remainder I won't touch (for now.)

*Reading!*

*Sa* generally causes soft tissue infections (impetigo, folliculitis, cutaneous abscesses.) In nosocomial contexts *Sa* can infect implanted devices (artificial heart valves, catheters, prosthetic joints, orthopaedics.) The most severe manifestation of disease is bacteremia - *Sa* circulates by the blood, moving to 'seed' vital organs (endocarditis, osteomyelitis, and UTI.) *Sa* can have a substantial cost per patient (12000-23000 USD.) The figure increases when considering MRSA strains. [The economic burden of *Sa* is characterized by a highly-organized virulence regulon](https://academic.oup.com/femspd/article/75/1/ftx005/2926030?login=true).
- *agr*. Accessory gene regulator. A well-characterized QS, 2-component system regulating virulence. Phosphorylation of *agrA* (triggered by other operon components) drives expression of virulence factors.
- RNAIII. *agr*-linked regulatory RNA. 5'-binding of mRNA to repress or activate virulence-associated transcripts.
- *rot*. Repressor of toxins. Repressed by RNAIII. High activity earlier in infection and lower activity later.
- *sarA*. Redundant *agr* activators. Independent virulence-factor expression.
- *saeRS*. Environmentally-responding system: *saeS* sensor, and *saeR* responder. Related to *agr*. Responds to pH, NaCl, and sub-MIC concentrations of antibiotics. Immune-response-styled signals with hydrogen peroxide and antimicrobial peptides (from neutrophils as well as calprotectin.)

- Oxygen levels in the host. Differs from tissue-to-tissue and can change during infection: increased immune cell recruitment changes O2 demands and tissue-resident immune cells can constrict vascular structures during infections. Biofilm conditions generate self-sustaining anaerobiosis (via *icaADBC* induction.) *Sa* growth can create pockets of hypoxia in pathologies like abscesses. *Sa* would normally disseminate from abscesses, become bacteraemia, and seed a variety of vital organs.
- Anaerobic response. Can use nitrate and nitrite when oxygen depletes (increased nitrate and nitrite reduction). Otherwise switches to fermentative metabolism (more glycolysis, fermentation, and anaerobic respiration; less Krebs cycle genes).
- *srrAB*. *Sa* respiratory response TCS. Likely responds to the menaquinone redox state. *srr* detoxifies NO and improves biofilm production. *srrAB* represses RNAIII in-vitro but activates virulence in osteomyelitis. Hypoxia and *ssrA* mutants have increased PSM production.
- *nreBC*. Fe-S cluster-based sensor. Activates nitrate reductase system. Will fall back to fermentation upon deactivation.
- *airSR*. Fe-S cluster-based sensor. Exclusively responds to nitrate. Upregulates *narG* and virulence-associated proteases.
- *rex*. NAD+/NADH pool sensor. Oxygen-independent regulator of fermentation, nitrite/nitrate reductases, and *srrAB*.
- *agrA*. Incidental loss-of-function from oxidative stress at regular O2 concentrations prevents virulence factor transcription.

- Glucose serves as the preferred carbon source of many organisms. Glucose is the most prevalent carbohydrate in the blood and is also found in the liver.
- *Sa* increases glycolytic flux and glucose uptake to balance out the energy deficit from using a fermentative metabolism. Hyperglycaemic (or diabetic) patients are hypersusceptible to *Sa* infection. Glucose promoted virulence factor and biofilm production.
- Low-glucose conditions promote a low-energy 'starvation' state in *Sa*. Around 1% of the population's size at the media's carrying capacity remain in dormancy after nutrients run out.
- *ccpA*. Carbon catabolite repression system. Linked to RNAIII regulation. Downregulates Krebs cycle enzymes *via* *ccpE*.
- *ccpE*. Sensor of citrate (first step of Krebs cycle.) Binding citrate leads to *ccpE*-dependent repression of TCA cycle enzymes, capsular polysaccharides, and superantigen-like proteins.
- *rpiR* family. Pentose-phosphate pathway sensors. Unknown ligand. Can sense metabolic shifts and repress virulence. Acts *via* *agr*.
- *codY*. Amino-acid starvation. Specifically responds to BCAAs (valine, leucine, isoleucine) and GTP. Functions as an 'AND' switch for *agr* activation during starvation. Repressor of starvation pathways.

Is it worthwhile adding glucose to LB media?

- Iron exists as heme in hemoglobin, iron-sulfur clusters on enzymes, extracellular storage molecules, or bound intracellularly to ferritin. Host immunity can scavenge loose iron away from infecting microbes. The defence process is called 'nutritional immunity.'
- Staphyloferrin A and B (*sba* and *sbn*). Siderophores with sufficient preference for iron to 'steal' iron from host proteins. Synthetic lethal operons.
- *isd*. Specialized haem-transporter. Unrelated genes release haem from cells using hemolysins and cytotoxins. *isd* then transports haem intracellularly and degrades it.
- *fur*. Ferric uptake regulator. Highly-conserved Fe2+ sensitive regulator. Represses iron uptake genes. Appear critical for *sba*, *sbn*, *isd*, coagulase, superantigen-like protesin, lipase, cytotoxins, and murine pneumonia virulence alongside neutrophil-mediated killing (plausibly ROS or membrane damage.)