*Daniel's comments*
- All-clear for Deb's LESB58 data. I'll streak some mutants today. He mentioned something about Deb's RNA-seq data too. A question for later?
- Blue?
- Invasion assay. Quantification? Drive to invade vs generalized expansion.
- Monoculture. Repeat #6 (PA14 wild-type).

*Links to data*
- Monoculture. 

*Missing mutants*
- Pa3602: lacZwp01q2 not present in database. 
Could try the redundant mutant in lacZbp03q1A04.
- Pa3698: phoAwp04q1 missing from position in -80C.
Redundant mutant in phoAwp09q2H05.

*BLASTp: pairwise*

| Locus comparison                         | Max score | Total score | Query cover | E-value | Per. identitiy | Acc. length |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------- | -------------- | ----------- |
| Pa0151 against *Pa* FpvA                 | 154       | 154         | 99%         | 5e-43   | 25.27%         | 815         |
| Pa0318 against *Ec* YCGM                 | 222       | 222         | 99%         | 3e-78   | 51.82%         | 219         |
| Pa0539 against *Tt* DegV-family protein  | 14.6      | 83.9        | 32%         | 3.0     | 40%            | 280         |
| Pa0539 against *Tm* DegV-family protein  | 15.4      | 97.0        | 48%         | 1.5     | 29.49%         | 288         |
| Pa0539 against *Sa* FaK                  | 11.5      | 38.5        | 6%          | 26      | 75%            | 288         |
| Pa1629 against *Pa* DspI                 | 134       | 134         | 93%         | 1e-42   | 39.02%         | 272         |
| Pa1857 against *Ec* YedI (computational) | 334       | 344         | 97%         | 1e-119  | 59.34%         | 305         |

*BLASTp: against PAO1*

| Locus tag       | Hits in PAO1 with E < 1e-4                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| Pa0151          | Iron-uptake receptors x25 hits                          |
| Pa0318          | Pa2471, Pa4122, Pa4121                                  |
| Pa0539          |                                                         |
| Pa1629          | Enoyl-CoA hydratase x14 hits                            |
| Pa1857          |                                                         |
| Pa3602          | Pa5306<br>(glutamate synthase large chain precursor)    |
| Pa3698          |                                                         |
| *pchD* (Pa4228) | Siderophore synthesis and acetyl-coa synthases x35 hits |

*Relevant literature*
[FpvA](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC135083/): maps to *pvd* locus. Pyoverdine deficient. Acts as a regulator of siderophore synthesis.

[YcgM](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10825186/): YcgM knockout leads to a re-arrangement of the TCA in *E. coli*. The cycle is reversed to become biosynthetic.

[FakB](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8892158/): ferries membrane lipids through the cytosol to FakA. Host membrane acquisition during infection.

[DspI](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-018-22300-1): involved in _cis_-2-decenoic acid (CDA) production - a quorum-sensing particle. Knockout disrupts pyoverdine production, swarming motility, and biofilm dispersion in PA14. General virulence regulator.

YedI: no references. I wonder why YedI is considered to be an inner-membrane protein?

*More reading!*
I've chosen to focus on apparently relevant citations. Unrelated microbes (like Candida) will be temporarily ignored.

[The multicellular nature of biofilms has implications in therapies](https://academic.oup.com/bjs/article/104/2/e85/6123025?login=true). The biochemical signature of the EPS characterizes the nature of the biofilm. Early in infection microbes can form distinct 'micro-colonies' identifiable using Gram-staining or CLSM. No clinical indicators may be present until microbial invasion into host tissue ('quiet infection'.)

- Cryptic reference: 'NIH' 80% of all known infections are attributable to biofilms and 65% of hospital-acquired infections are attributable to biofilms.
- [War wounds:](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9278338/) Biofilm production predicts recurrent wound infection. *Pa* tends to be more AMR in soft-tissue infection contexts. *Sa* has a similar trend. 'Patients with polymicrobial infections had higher injury severity, greater number of limbs with infections, more amputations, and were more frequently admitted to the intensive care unit.' Both *Sa* and *Pa* occur more frequently in polymicrobial wounds settings than monomicrobial. Polyamines (norspermidine) showed activity against single-species isolates.
- [Around 80% of chronic wounds are polymicrobial](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28103163/).
- [*Pa* and *Sa* are over-represented among bacterial species in polymicrobial wounds - appearing in 65% and 25% of infections respectively](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wrr.12370). A massive paradox is that wound de-colonization does not apparently promote wound healing. Perhaps resident *Pa* and *Sa* do not necessarily impair healing. Rather the concern is with a 'broken host.' Chronic infections are called such after initial treatment has failed - as opposed to deadly, acute, but susceptible planktonic infections. Biofilms can be viewed as bacteria with access to multiple genetic resources.
	- [Serum albumin binds *Pa* quorum-sensing molecules to prevent *Sa* killing](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5563583/). Partial explanation from albumin but serum itself has additional activity. *Pa* normally kills *Sa* overnight. Systems affected by albumin include *lasI*, *lasB*, *rhlI*, and *rsaL*. *pqs* exhibits the opposite trend.
		- [Stapholysin (lasA protease) can inhibit both *Sa* and cause elastolysis](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8463280/). The enzyme has bimodal functionality.
		- [*pelA* and *pslF* mutants had substantially reduced *Se* biofilm disruption](https://www.microbiologyresearch.org/content/journal/micro/10.1099/mic.0.028001-0#tab2). *rhlA* mutants are insufficient to stop disruption of *Se* biofilms. Deletion of *lasI*, *rhlI*, and *pqsA* only created partial phenotypes. Much redundancy in anti-staphylococcal factors. Cellulase and alginate-lyase to disrupt *pel* and *psl* respectively.
	- [*Pa* isolated from CF has a adapted to co-exist with *Sa*](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3945726/). PAO1 and PA14 strongly inhibit Newmann where many clinical strains do not. Patho-adapted strains produce increased biofilm in the context of *Sa*. Occurs both *in-vitro* and in *in-vivo* murine pneumonia models.
	- [*Sa* virulence factors are at least partially responsible for the severity of polymicrobial wound infections](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0056846). 
- [The dominance of *Pa* and *Sa* remains across multiple chronic wound environments: pressure ulcer, diabetic foot ulcer, surgical wound, and venous leg ulcer](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/wrr.12370). *Pseudomonas* does not seem to overgrow other genera as strongly as *Sa*. Could indicate an all-or-nothing localization and more specific inter-species demands (I.E. *Pa* only co-occurs with *Sa*.) MRSA forms 40% of *Sa* strains and *Pa* is often resistant to ESBLs. *Pa* most commonly formed single-species biofilms. 'Polymicrobial soup.'
- [Bacterial load is a crucial measurement for diagnosis not available with traditional culture-based methods](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5279919/). Communities which are more stable or that have increased *Sa* loads are associated with longer-healing wounds than communities which don't. Antibiotics can disrupt community stability in ulcers.


[Ecological disasters during disease](https://www.microbiologyresearch.org/content/journal/micro/10.1099/mic.0.26082-0).

No apparent review of the relative relevance of anti-staphylococcal factors. Which are key?
Maybe *Sa* factors can also interact with *Pa* quorum-sensing signals. Does *Sa* make anything that sequesters stuff away?