*Ordered today*
- Cuvette boxes x5 ~$90

*Some requests from Daniel*
- Email Maddie, she had a project that would be using confocal microscopy. My guess is she wants to look at protein localization. I'll tell her to send an email to Rob, as her project differs from mine substantially.
- Request a *PC2*-friendly microscope. I guess I'll need to go back to Rob for this.

*Microscope parameters*
It feels like we're asking Rob to find the Loch Ness monster. I hope that at least one scope will have the parameters we need.

- PC2 only, no shortcuts with sealed vessels possible
- Macroscopic (5-10mm diameter; like 4X/10X lens on a conventional microscope)
- Fluorescence: can do GFP/YFP/mCherry/Far-red

Nice to have:
- Incubation chamber (temperature/humidity controlled)
- Brightfield illumination

*An example: Ecological neutrality*

Adapted from [this paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32555430/), the bottom of the section titled 'Channels emerge as an inherent property of biofilm formation.'

This paper looks at water channels in *E. coli* colonies. I don't want to write about the rest of the paper as I think it's actually very good, but there is one section that requires care in its interpretation. To look at whether water channels could spontaneously reform, the water channels were mechanically disrupted (using a sterile pipette) after some time and allowed to restructure themselves.

Does such a disruption (mechanical) ever result in an absence of an ecological state, where cells simply cannot react to each other? I'd guess that cells instead become homogenous, and would be forced into a setting where if possible, mutualism/parasitism are the optimal strategies.

It's really a logic of balance: in order to lose an ecological state, biofilms must always gain a replacement state. Certain gene products may have less or more merits to them under such circumstances. For example, a parasite ('cheater') may find themselves pushed to the borders of a producer colony normally, but if the species are intermixed, it could be that the 

When considering antimicrobial treatments, those that disrupt the biofilm do not only remove prior ecological associations, but also provide room for novel functionalities. A niche function of a species may become critically important, if the cell is moved into a sub-optimal place for its main survival strategy.

Ecological neutrality, while plausible, is a transient concept. Cells far apart are ecologically neutral, and cells that are placed in a new environment will quickly adapt. In that small window of time species will behave as before and be acting irrespective of spatial context. *'Cellular globalism.'*

*I wonder if there's a way to extend a window of adaptation?*

*Notes from a weekend working in the laboratory*

Speed-running growth curves - these should take only about 3 hours to set up.
- Day culture of bacteria. For PAO1 and PA14, about 5h is enough time to grow to exactly OD1 in LB.
- One biological sample = 3-4 separate colonies. Pick using a yellow-tipped pipette, and eject tip into media directly.
- Take samples from ON tubes using a blue-tipped pipette, it is long enough to take samples without having to remove the yellow-tip from the ON tube.
- Wash cells with PBS. Spin them down first and simply pour spend media out instead of pipetting it. This is much faster!
- Make a table of OD measurements (1-2, in increments of 0.1) and the amount of PBS to dilute the culture by to reach an OD of 1. It's faster than using a calculator.
Preparation
- Dry agar plates from the cold room by placing them upside-down.
- Make the media-filled black well plate earlier in the day - when making the day cultures of bacteria.
- LESB, the *Pa* strain, will need to be cultured for 24 hours. Prepare ON on the previous day.

| Fluorescent protein | Excitation | Emission | Source                     |
| ------------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------------------------- |
| GFP                 | 470        | 515      | Clariostar default         |
| YFP                 | 500        | 543      | David's (Fineran) protocol |
| 'Far-red'           | 592        | 650      | Deb's protocol             |
| GFP (backup)        | 485        | 528      | Deb's protocol             |
 
*Loose thoughts*

- Cooperation, or coercion?
- Hybrid modelling
- Temporal modelling, what sort of patterns show a great species flux?

*Colony topography*

Could I use some kind of confocal technique, only on the surface of biofilms? I would not need to punch through agar and would instead would end up with something of a geographic map.