*Daniel's suggestions*

Imaging
- The image core could be photobleached. I will need Keith to check.
- The simplest method of checking is moving the 4x objective lens to another microscope - possibly the confocal.
- Time frame! Probably the most interesting critique. I need individual microcolonies. I could play around with the culturing time (morning setup, evening imaging).
- Improved magnification for LESB58. Fine-grained interactions could be interesting. I'll return to this later, maybe?
- Edge imaging. From the point of inoculum.

Agarose pores
- *Pa* protease degrading agarose. Seems unlikely but could exist.
- *Sa* protease degrading agarose. Least likely situation. Supported by Deb's data.

Alternative models
- Deb's hydroxyapatite imaging. Disks aren't flat, which could be concerning. I'll find Deb's protocol.

Agarose humidity
- Humidity sachets for preventing agarose cracking. I've seen moisture packets for marijuana but not agarose. Maybe they are the same?

*Lab meeting, presentation*

Chores, as usual
- Recharge Anu's pipette gun.

Presenting images
- Make sure 10mm is actually 1mm.
- Put culturing time on images.

Hypothesis generation
- Create a diagram demonstrating the location of bacterial growth (inoculum edge.)

Loose thoughts
- Intentional crystallization with Daniel. We'd get an incredible model of early growth, but the protocol is dodgy. 'Auto-fixing plates.'
- Drug cocktail. From Maddie's presentation. We could try *all* of the b-lactamase inhibitor simultaneously. Why not bulk screen my chems?

*Lewontin's genetic basis of evolutionary change*

A foothold! The basis of genetic change is diploidy (or polyploidy.) Such a genetic complementation is very similar to the trans-spatial segregation of genes in polymicrobial cultures. In humans genes are segregated by replication events and trans-human barriers (be they physical, cultural, or otherwise.) In microbiological cultures genes are segregated by *within-species* replication and trans-microbial barriers.
- Coupled replication. Can *Sa* and *Pa* maintain a non-equilibirating ratio of growth - maybe?
- 'Heterotic/heterosis' - lethal genes which provide more functionality in heterozygous contexts. Consider sickle-cell anemia.

'Death valley' - genome segment sensitive to lethal mutation.